OVER 50 lady golfers have confirmed to participate in this year’s Morogoro Open Golf Champions soon after the organisers confirmed its comeback this weekend. It is a 36-hole tournament to be played in two days at Morogoro Gymkhana Club course, according to the organisers. The two-day competition has regained life this year about six years since the tournament was last staged in 2014. The tournament is set for a tee off this Saturday and winds up on Sunday. It is organised by Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) in collaboration with hosts Morogoro club. The event early was due to tee off on December 5th this year at the same course before it was postponed. The union’s Vice President Anita Siwale said they were forced to push the tournament to this weekend to give room for other tournaments that collided with Morogoro Ladies Open. Siwale, who also serves as Morogoro Club’s Lady Captain, said they were delighted to receive good response as by yesterday, there were more than 50 golfers who had submitted their entries at the club. “We are very grateful especially to men who have shown interest to support ladies, they responded well at a short notice,” said Siwale. She also thanked the main sponsor, Vacuna Limited for bankrolling the tournament. But she added that the tournament has also received a new boost from Pepsi, who yesterday agreed to assist. “Without sponsors it is very difficult to conduct a national level tournament, as we could not organise the event for several years due to different reasons, including sponsorship, we thank them all,” she added. The event’s defending champion Angel Eaton who won last title in 2014 is heading to Morogoro for the title-defence mission. Morogoro is only brown course in the country; this will give golfers a different taste at the course. Ladies will compete for the throne in a stroke-play basis counting on gross strokes, while men who will play in subsidiary even will be guided by net rules. Junior golfers, who have been invited, will cover 18 holes while those aged below 10 years will play 9 holes.