SO many things have changed since the corona virus pandemic erupted and declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organisation. Containment measures applied by some countries to curb the spread of the disease have caused social and economic disruptions all over the world. The impact of the virus spared no one across the globe from big business enterprises to small traders. But there is a famous adage in Kiswahili ‘Kufa kufaana’ which can roughly mean there may be opportunities to benefit in crises. Covid-19 disrupted many activities in manufacturing industries, tourism, and trade resulting to disruptions on the economies of many countries. But, there are a few who benefitted from the outbreak. Small scale entrepreneurs who produce face masks, sanitisers and hygiene equipment such as portable water containers/ tanks, washing detergents, and sanitisers will relish on the business opportunity brought about by the infectious disease. Women entrepreneurs in Zanzibar are among the few who benefited from the opportunity created by the coronavirus. “We join the grieving world due to loss of lives following the Covid-19, but it was an opportunity to some of us to sell many items. We feel sorry for all people who were affected by the virus,” says Ms Hidaya Rehani Hassan, entrepreneur from Bumbwini village in North Unguja. She said that her organisation named ‘Maskini Naye Mtu’ benefited during the coronavirus as they produced and sold locally face masks, soaps, and sanitisers which were on high demand by residents and in business areas by markets. The Business woman said they worked a lot to meet the demand for face masks and sanitisers, and Ms Khadija Pandu from ‘Tusitiriane’ group- Bumbwini village said that they produced standard face masks and sanitisers. “We are engaged in similar business like making washing detergent and fabrics, but we had to be trained under the observation of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Ministry of Health to ensure required standards are met,” said Pandu. The entrepreneurs thanked Milele Zanzibar Foundation (MZF) and Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA) for organising the short training facilitated by officers from the Small and Medium Industrial Development Agency (SMIDA). Ms Pandu said that although they benefited in the days between March and May, they ran out of ‘raw materials’ elastic band for mask, and package materials leading to low production and switching to use of thread for mask. “This was the time when President John Magufuli in June announced that Tanzania was safe from Covid-19 allowing the opening of schools, and other businesses such as tourism back to normal,” the entrepreneurs said. They said low production was followed by lack of market for masks and sanitisers because the government had declared that coronavirus was under control, but insisting on observing health precautions. Despite benefits of ‘coronavirus pandemic period,’ the entrepreneurs did not keep their data well on how much [number of masks and sanitizers] they produced and sold during the period before the graph went down. However, Ms Nairat Abdalla Ali from TAMWA commended them for the efforts. Other entrepreneurs, particularly producers of washing detergents, in Unguja and Pemba Islands also revealed that they had good sale during Covid-19 compared to ‘now’ when Tanzania is the only country not disturbed with coronavirus. While most entrepreneurs produced and sold face masks and sanitisers, the ‘Barefoot College- Zanzibar’ manufactured and distributed freely, reusable face masks throughout the Isles along with raising awareness about mask use in an effort to help flatten the coronavirus curve. Ms Pendo Daudi- Country representative, Barefoot College-Zanzibar said “Our plan was to start with production of 25,000 masks to distribute them randomly in local markets in Unguja and Pemba Island. We distributed the masks at Kinyasini Market in North Unguja before extending to other local public markets.” She said that any person in market place (traders and visitors) was entitled to receive a mask free-ofcharge with emphasis to use the masks as precautionary against Covid-19. In support of the masks production by women entrepreneurs members of the Zanzibar House of Representatives, during April session, also contributed 33m/- to produce masks that were distributed to their electorates in respective constituencies in the country. The money was given to local entrepreneurs. Although entrepreneurs say coronavirus outbreak was an opportunity for a short period in Tanzania, residents engaged in tourism industry are also getting back to business gradually after more than seven months of closure caused by Covid-19 travel restrictions globally.