THE National Reconciliation Committee (NRC) has called on the international community to refrain from meddling into the country’s internal political affairs. They insisted that by doing so, they were likely to disrupt the country’s peace, which Tanzania has been enjoying for many decades. According to results from the National Electoral Commission (NEC), the ruling CCM’s Dr John Magufuli cruised to a landslide victory after winning more than 84 per cent of the votes cast during the October 28 presidential poll that was held concurrently with elections of members of parliament and councillors. Dr Magufuli beat by far his closest challenger Chadema’s Tundu Lissu who collected 13 per cent. In Zanzibar, CCM’s Hussein Mwinyi won the presidential vote by 76.27 per cent also beating by a long way, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad of ACT-Wazalendo who obtained 19.87 per cent. NRC which is a committee comprising religious leaders from different denominations countrywide, further took a swipe at a section of political leaders, who have been issuing inflammatory statements by forcing people to engage in unlawful demonstrations, advising them to follow appropriate legal actions in pushing for their demands. Addressing a news conference here, NRC Chairman Sheikh Alhad Mussa Salum said it was improper for representatives of foreign states and organisations to issue statements that were meddling into the country’s politics as they were likely to instigate chaos. Since the national electoral body announced results for the just concluded 2020 General Election, some quarters from the international community have been issuing statements alleging that the election was unfair. In contrary, a considerable number of observers including the East African Community observer team have already offered a thumbs-up to the NEC saying they conducted free and fair elections. The clerics maintained that the election was free, fair, transparent and credible, calling for opposition leaders to support president elect Dr John Magufuli, to help the country move forward. “Even different international observers concluded that the just concluded election was held in a free, fair and transparent manner, ‘’ said Sheikh Salum, who doubles as Dar es Salaam Chief Sheikh. The NRC chairman also asked a section of the political class from the opposition to refrain from forcing their members and supporters to engage into unlawful demonstrations, insisting that it was high time the country remained united. He was supported by NRC Dodoma Regional Chairman, Bishop Dr Evance Chande, who insisted: “We should understand that peace is not sold in shops or markets, and if it was, then some nations which are now in endless wars would have bought it immediately.’’ He urged all Tanzanians to unite and collaborate with the current government to push for the country’s agenda which is development. NRC Secretary General, Bishop Dr Osward Mlay said his committee was ready to help people who were not satisfied with the just concluded election in dialogue as well as advising them to follow proper legal processes to address their grievances. “We conducted several prayers for peace before the election and we thank God that we had peaceful polls countrywide and even as we speak the country remains peaceful, therefore we need to support the government to push for development,’’ he said. Meanwhile, the Evangelical Assemblies of God Tanzania (EAGT) has advised political leaders, who oppose General Election results, to seek legal procedures. The church discouraged members of the public from engaging in strikes, as the move could only lead into serious peace breach, reports Kareny Masasy from Shinyanga. EAGT Bishop for Shinyanga, Kagera and Geita Zone, Mr Raphael Machimu, who also doubles as the Executive Secretary for Shinyanga Religious leaders’ Peace Committee said over the weekend that political leaders should also adhere to country’s laws when challenging ballot results. “Street rioting is unacceptable at all. Political leaders and their followers should challenge the results through the existing legal channels and procedures. Citizens should also continue to pray for our country to maintain peace, love and solidarity,” said the Bishop. He stressed that if political leaders observed any weakness during election processes, they were supposed to collect evidence from NEC and file a petition. The Bishop for Shinyangabased Philadelphia Miracle Temple Church, Mr Laizer Baraka insisted the citizens to continue praying for the country as well as avoid any unnecessary gatherings. For her side, Shinyanga Regional Police Commander (RPC), Ms Debora Magiligimba noted the call for demonstration was unwelcome, stressing that if anybody was dissatisfied with election results should go for legal measures, but not strike.