THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) is on final stages of investigations of corrupt practices in construction of Arusha water authority offices worth more than 5.3bn/-. They are investigating embezzlement and violation of procurement rules and regulations in the execution process of constructing the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (AUWSA) office in the city. PCCB Director General, Brigadier General John Mbungo said that PCCB officials are winding up investigations so that all those involved in the alleged embezzlement are arraigned, adding that taking them to court could be any time from now. He said that their investigations from the beginning established that there was no grain of doubt that there were violations of law in procurement procedures, so it is just a matter of time before completing and charging those responsible. "Preliminary investigations by the PCCB have revealed violations of procurement procedures, so legal procedures are being arranged and the alleged perpetrators will be brought to justice at any time," said General Mbungo. He insisted that the corruption watchdog will not leave behind anybody linked to dirty deals, and instead it will prosecute the same. He said all government procurement procedures and laws should be adhered to, hence follow-ups on different projects will be going on all over the country from time to time. The PCCB boss said that President John Magufuli has instructed them to make sure there is right use of public resources, including making sure that laws of the land, rules and directives are heeded to by all. He called upon all dealing with procurement issues to make sure they adhere to the same, including understanding and following the procurement anti-corruption guide launched in Dodoma this year. PCCB has successfully settled a land conflict in Meru District, Arusha Region, involving 83 growers who used to farm at Malula land on one hand, and Sofia Okash on the other. The conflict was over ownership of some 2,456 acres of land, each side claiming to be legal owners. PCCB said the director investigated and has since established that none of them is the rightful owner of the land. General Mbungo said that the fact is that all the acres belong to the government through Malula Industrial Project under the Meru District Council. He said both parties have been notified of the outcome of the investigations and consequent decision. He called upon the public to find, learn and understand all laws, rules and procedures in land ownership so as to avoid being embroiled in unnecessary conflicts.