THE High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division has sentenced two Iranian nationals to 60 years’ imprisonment for trafficking a large quantity of dangerous narcotic drugs, including 111.02kg of heroin and 235.78gms of cannabis resin using an ark in the Indian Ocean. Judge Imakulata Banzi imposed such a sentence last Friday against Nabibakhs Bibarde, who was captain of the ark and Mohamadhanif Dorzade, an engineer, after convicting them of two offences of trafficking narcotic drugs. The judge ruled that the prosecution, led by Principal State Attorney Monica Mbogo and Senior State Attorney Cecilia Shelli, sufficiently proved the case against the two foreigners beyond a reasonable doubt after weighing the evidence tendered by both parties. She ordered each convict to go to jail for 30 years for trafficking 111.02kg of heroin and other 30 years imprisonment for trafficking 235.78gms of cannabis resin. The judge, however, directed both sentences to run co-currently. This means that the two convicted foreigners will remain behind bars for only 30 years. Apart from imposing such a sentence, the judge also ordered the destruction of the drugs seized and confiscated the ark, which was used to traffic the drugs. Nevertheless, the judge acquitted other 11 accused persons, including other eight Iranian nationals and three Tanzanians, who were jointly charged in the trial. The freed accused persons include Abdallah Sahib, UIbeidulla Abdi, Naim Ishaqa, Moslem Golmohamad, Rashid Badfar, Omary Ayoub, Tahir Mubarak and Abdulmajid Pirmuhamad, who are all Iran nationals and Tanzanians Ally Abdallah and Juma Amour. During trial, the prosecution called 10 witnesses, while the accused persons, who were represented by defence counsel Juma Nassoro and Jethro Tiliemwesiga gave their own defence without calling independent witnesses. Before sentencing, the prosecution had asked the court to punish the accused severely considering the seriousness of the offences committed as well as the effects of the drugs to human life. The sentence, according to the prosecution, should deter others from committing similar offences. On the other hand, the defence requested for a lenient sentence as their clients were first offenders. The trial attorney told the court that on October 25, 2017 in the Indian Ocean in Tanzania, the accused allegedly trafficked in narcotic drugs, which were 111.02kg of heroin.