AFTER making a stoppage time penalty save against Namungo, Young Africans goalkeeper Metacha Mnata hailed Coach Cedric Kaze for his encouragement before the spot kick was played. Namungo missed a golden chance to become the first team to beat Yanga this season as the two sides played to a 1-1 draw in one of the thrilling Premier League encounters at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. The visitors failed to convert an injury time penalty which was awarded to them, following a foul committed by centre back Bakari Mwamnyeto to Namungo’s danger man Shiza Kichuya who was introduced as a substitute in the second half. The offence saw Mwamnyeto receiving a yellow card as the referee pointed at the penalty spot, an advantage for the visiting team to produce a last minute away victory. However, Bigirimana Blaise’ strike was well saved by Mnata while the rebound shot went over the cross bar to the relief of the hosts who stretched their unbeaten run this season to eleven encounters. But, speaking after the game, Mnata who briefly went to his team’s technical area before the spot kick was played said, Kaze told him to be calm while studying the movements of the penalty taker. “First, let me thank our coach Kaze because he is the one who blessed me with big hopes to save that penalty. He told me that the spot kick taker (Blaise) usually directs his penalty shots to one direction as such, I should wait until he plays the ball,” revealed Mnata. He further disclosed that before going at his guarding territory, he deliberately awaken Yanga supporters who by that time seemed to have been frozen so as to make them believe that in football, anything can happen. “I had to wake them up and give them the lost hope and to the grace of God, I succeeded to save the penalty which reminded me another classical spot kick save I did in the away reverse match against Botswana’s side Township Rollers,” he said. On his part, Kaze said the results was disappointing to them as they had a chance to go higher of the Premier League table if they had won on the day. “In terms of performance from my boys, I have nothing much to say as they did everything possible to grab the victory but unfortunately, it was not materialised.