YOUNG Africans player of the moment Deus Kaseke has elaborated that understanding the way striker Yacouba Sogne plays is the reason which has fuelled him to score in two consecutive games. Yanga crushed JKT Tanzania 1-0 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend to continue navigating the 18-team league table whose path towards the league title is becoming narrow game after game. However, Kaseke has lately emerged hero for Yanga after netting crucial goals in two back to back Premier League fixtures against Azam and JKT Tanzania, hence enabling the Jangwani Street based club to stay glued at the summit of the table. The duo (Kaseke and Sogne) seem to have got into each other’s mind as they have actively been involved in match winning moments for the past two duels. But, at a post-match briefing, Kaseke narrated that he has now understood Sogne’s playing style which gives him a simple job to move at space and slice the ball to the back of the net. “I use his abilities to penetrate at available open spaces so that he can easily judge my movement before releasing the pass. I believe that we have something in common which later contributes to the positive results for the team,” he said. His coach Cedric Kaze said having a depth squad is very important as it gives enough time for players to recuperate, especially when they are exposed to frequent fixtures. “We have played three games in eight days hence you definitely expect to see fatigue from players and their total work rate cannot be maintained under such circumstances,” he said. He also disclosed that his side lacked game control mainly in the second half thereby opening up spaces for the visitors to come in and press them a lot. “Due to this, we lacked confidence to source the second goal which could have given us full dominance of the match but, in the end, three points was better even though it is hard to get them,” the Burundian trainer narrated. His colleague for JKT Tanzania Abdallah Mohamed expressed happiness for the way his charges played but said he was not pleased with the outcome. “We had a good game but one mistake which we committed was used positively by our opponents hence losing the match in the end. It was a tough match for both teams, and let me congratulate Yanga for the victory,” he said. His striker Adam Adam said the negative outcome was just part of the game as such, they will work hard to regain league momentum in their next fixtures. “In all the games we play, our game plan is to win the match but it happens that we fail to get what we deserve...that is what football is all about,” Adam said.