FRAUDSTERS are said to emerge at the new state-of-the-art Dar es Salaam upcountry bus terminal at Mbezi Luis due to high demand of small-scale traders’ business slots. According to the ‘Daily News’ survey conducted on Thursday, the fraudsters con a trader to pay between 25,000/- and 40,000/- for processing a letter and getting a business slot at the new glittering bus terminal to start operating at the end of the month. The opportunists are boasting that they have connections with city authorities and so a trader is assured of a slot once the bus terminal starts operating. According to information the ‘Daily News’ received from the Dar es Salaam City Council, there are two types of businesses that will operate at the bus terminal—one type is for small-scale traders and the other is for letting business rooms. The traders are applying for the slots by writing to the city authorities and renters do the same, but online. This is to control the fraudsters. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’, Mbezi Luis Small-scale Traders Association chairman Abubakari Kavishe confirmed the emergence of the fraudsters, who were wandering around selling their idea that they had slots and one should part with a certain amount of money to get one. “One of the fraudsters has been arrested. He was trying to defraud a trader here the other day,” Mr Kavishe said adding: “Those looking for the slots should follow procedures to avoid being cheated.” Mr Kavishe, who chairs the association of small-scale traders near Mbezi Luis Bus Terminal, said they had already applied to the city director 10 days ago as a group and they were waiting for the reply. “We have applied for 60 places and we are awaiting for director’s reply…the presence of these conmen backpedals the government and our effort to follow procedures,” Mr Kavishe said. The association’s Assistant Secretary Sospeter Misungwi also confirmed the existence of swindlers who were taking those in need of new spaces for a ride if they accepted shortcuts. In another development, some small-scale traders have started planning to get business spaces at the terminal. Some of them are planning not only to improve their businesses, but also increase their working capital. Ms Agnes Mgando, a resident of Malamba Mawili, who sells drinks near the new bus terminal, said she would improve her business style after getting the opportunity to trade inside the bus terminal. “I will try to get more capital, improve my business after getting an opportunity to operate inside the bus terminal,” Ms Mgando said. Another trader, Mr Joseph Charles, from Segerea, who sells biscuits, crisps and popcorns, said he would do his business without saying how he would win not only customers, but also city authorities’ hearts. For his part, Mr Ivan Godfrey, a resident of Mbagala said he preferred to do business in the bus terminal area as his goods would sell as hot cakes due to a big number of customers he had. “My wish is to get a positive reply for my application…the terminal is safer compared to walking with goods along Morogoro Road,” he said.