THE dream of an up-and-close encounter with chimpanzees is soon to become a reality following collaboration between Tanzania National Parks (Tanapa) and Uvinza District Council to construct a 38km road from Rukoma Village to Mahale Mountains National Park. The partnership involves the construction of a 180km road from Kigoma to the same park which is a chimps sanctuary. The completion of the roads will enable visitors to access the national park by road and spare them the burden of the high cost of taking boats or aircraft. The construction of roads is not only important for the people’s wellbeing as it will also offer tourists a once-in-a-lifetime experience of travelling by road to the protected area. “We have already constructed two bridges in Rukoma and Lagosa, as well as three box culverts at Nkonkwa, Katato and Kabezi, as part of Tanapa’s contribution to the road project,” said Mr Herman Batiho, former Mahale Mountains Chief Park Warden. “The importance of road transport cannot be overemphasised in tourism business for it links visitors with various touristic destinations,” said Mr Batiho. Echoing similar sentiments, Tanapa Director of Tourism and Marketing Ibrahim Mussa said Tanapay, which is mandated to manage 16 national parks in the country, was striving after solving infrastructural challenges in protected areas. “Through this, we aim at attracting more tourists to national parks…we want to guarantee them pleasant stay in the country,” Mr Mussa explained. Domestic tourists have also taken advantage of the park’s accessibility since the construction of the road. According to Mr Batiho, domestic tourists have been visiting the Mahale Mountains National Park to view chimpanzees and enjoy the breathtaking beauty of the park. “Local tourists hire vehicles from Kigoma Town and travel by this road to Mgambo Village before hiring a fibre boat that takes 40 minutes to the national park,” explained the Chief Park Warden. Since Mahale Mountain National Park formation was published in a Government Gazette, tourists have been using boats and aircraft to reach the park. An ordinary wooden boat takes 9 hours from Kigoma Town to the national park, while a speed boat takes 4 hours. However, there are chartered planes that tourists can take and land a point closer to Mahale from where they may use a boat that takes only 10 minutes to the park headquarters. Mahale Mountains National Park is home to communities of chimpanzees and is famous for chimpanzee tracking, beautiful beaches of Lake Tanganyika, not to mention a variety of flora and fauna. Referred to as Tanzania’s most remote and one of the country’s most alluring park, Mahale is the first and principal chimpanzee haven. About 1,700 chimpanzees are said to inhabit in the area. However, one community of habituated chimpanzees is for tourism activities.