AT around noon on Saturday the Daily News writer arrives at Ibihwa Ward’s offices located in Bahi District in Dodoma Region to hear stories from young people and other community members who benefited from ‘Tutimize Ahadi’ (Let’s Keep Our Promise) project being undertaken by Restless Development, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO). The team which also included researchers, officials from Restless Development and journalists from other media outlets arrived at the designated area to get a progress report on the implementation of the project. In 2015 world government’s made a commitment to achieve gender equality by 2030 (Sustainable Development Goal 5) and the use of Family Planning through FP2020 commitment. “Tutimize Ahadi” project is a youth-led initiative that seeks to ensure the Tanzania’s government honours that commitment. These young people conducted research in their communities to assess the status of gender equality and family planning and use data to influence the government. The project, funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, brought together young people, aged 18-28, from Dodoma, Iringa, and Ruvuma regions to catalyse progress. The NGO provides training, and opportunities to facilitate young change makers to monitor, and evaluate gov20 DAILY NEWS TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24-30, 2020 RESTLESS Development researchers collect data from Ibihwa Ward youth in Bahi District, Dodoma Region recently on the results of Tutimize Ahadi (Let’s Keep Our Promise) project that was carried in Iringa, Dodoma and Ruvuma regions. The initiative seeks to raise awareness on gender discrimination and violence against women and children. (Photo by Iddy Mwema) LOCAL FEATURES Young girls empowered to promote family planning ernment progress on family planning and gender equality. This includes researching and mapping access to services and quality of life for girls and women. Crucially Restless Development empowers the young people to use their findings, their expertise and their experience to inform their communities and influence decision-makers to implement better policies and create social change. Upon arrival at Ibihwa Ward, the team was introduced to a group of youth aged between 18 and 28 years. Among them was a young lady aged 25 years who introduced herself as Eudia Yohana. Dressed in her maroon t-shirt and yellow skirt, the lady progressed to sit where a team of interviewers sat to have a glimpse at her and get to know how she had so far benefited from the project. The 25-year old lady says she is a mother of two children and her dream was to become a lawyer. However that dream was cut short after she was forced by her parents to get married. Ten years ago, Eudia who was only 15 years old was forced to write wrong answers in her Standard Seven examinations so that she could fail and get married. “When I was in standard six, my parents separated and my mother had no money to take me to secondary school, so she advised me that during exams I should write wrong answers so that after failing I get married,’’ she says. Eudia who looks confident when giving her explanation further said that after the results came out, she failed and she decided to get married because life was very tough during that time. She is among young girls whose dreams were cut short because of poor traditional beliefs and economic status. According to her, before getting training from Restless Development, there was no one who was aware of some traditional beliefs that derailed their development. “We had poor understanding of family planning as well as gender based violence (GBV), but this project has helped us to learn so many things. Currently, early marriages have been reduced and whenever they occur people have been seriously coming out to condemn them. Her statement was seconded by Zawadi Bakari, a police officer at a gender desk of Dodoma Central Police Station, who says that now the community was well aware after awareness campaign done by the NGO. “Previously we were not getting information on these incidences as parties involved were negotiating with offenders and settling their cases at home. But today, we are receiving reports of the incidences especially GBV,’’ she said. She adds that rape and sodomy matters have decreased significantly after awareness campaigns within communities, and this has aroused fear amongst offenders. Ms Bakari further asked men who were encountering GBV incidences in their homes to report those matters to police gender desks so that they can act accordingly. “We have had only a few men who have been reporting GBV incidences, but I want to tell them that this is a gender and children desk and not a desk for women and children alone,’’ she noted. Tutimize Ahadi Project which is implemented in three regions and expected to be completed this year had an objective to provide massive education to the community, as well as making a follow up of pledges provided by the government on GBV and maternal health. Restless Development Communications Officer, Magdalena Kasubi says that the project was rolled out in Dodoma, Ruvuma and Iringa due to the fact that the three regions were among the regions in the country with the highest level of GBV incidences. The target according to her was to reduce such incidences before going into other regions countrywide. Apart from getting educations on GBV issues the project equally targeted to train youth on entrepreneurship and leadership so that they can participate in decision making bodies and help the country in development. According to Ms Kasubi, in ensuring that there was gender equality in the targeted regions, as well as fighting against GBV, Restless Development worked in collaboration with other NGOs and the government to ensure that the project was bringing desired results. Among the NGOs that were engaged in the project includes AFNET. The Executive Director of the NGO, Sarah Mwaga commended the initiative and requested other organisations to join efforts to bring changes in the community. Lamaiti Village Executive Officer (VEO), Paschal Mangwela says the education that was being provided in the project had helped his villagers to have a broader understanding on issues that they did not know before. He further admitted that GBV incidences in his village had been reduced significantly due to the fact that the community was aware after being educated on the vice. After this important education, we have managed to introduce a special committee which is dealing with all incidences of GBV that are reported as well as violence against children and all offenders are taken to security agencies so that stern legal actions are instituted against them