AS Tanzanians on Wednesday joined the rest of the continent to celebrate the African Statistics Day, statisticians have advised planning officers and other development planners to properly use data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to plan for the country’s development. The call was made here by Tanzania Statistical Association (TASTA) Chairman, Titus Musomba during the celebrations held in Dodoma, an event that coincided with association’s Annual General Meeting. “I urge Tanzanians to capitalize on official statistics, and all statisticians gathering… should produce and release only data that abides by the country’s legislation,’’ said Mr Musomba. African Statistics Day is an annual event celebrated on every 18th November to raise public awareness on the importance of statistics in all aspects of social and economic life. This year’s theme- “Modernizing National Statistical Systems to provide data and statistics to support sustainable peace and development in Africa,” was thought to be in tandem with the African Union’s for the year 2020 that says-“Silencing the guns: Creating conducive conditions for Africa’s development.” According to the International Statistical Institute (ISI), Vice President, Oliver Chinganya, the theme of the African Statistics Day this year was chosen to raise awareness among decision-makers, technical and financial partners, data producers, researchers and the general public on the critical importance of governance and socioeconomic statistics in achieving the goal of a conflictfree Africa. In a statement he delivered to Tanzanian statisticians via a video conference on Wednesday, Mr Chinganya commended NBS for its performance, saying it is in one of the African countries’ institutions doing well in statistics to provide relevant information. Mr Chinganya said ISI was fully committed to continue working with NBS on a number of issues on statistics. “We have been working with NBS in many statistical areas and I believe that your meeting will identify various challenges, and also believe that this gathering will come up with the best deliberations, which will bring transformation in several statistical areas,’’ he noted. Speaking at the event, TASTA Vice Chairperson, Beatrice Kavenuke said her association had done a commendable job in the country’s development by helping in gathering statistics in all spheres including economic, political and social aspects.