ELECTED Legislators, who will be making their maiden appearance in the 12th Parliament, are among those who reported early for registration and administration procedures at the Bunge grounds on Sunday. The 12th Parliament is due to start on Monday and end on Friday with the Clerk of the National Assembly, Mr Stephen Kagaigai, on Saturday calling upon all MPs - elect to turn up for registration and administration issues starting on Sunday and today. Some of the new parliamentarians, who were seen at the Bunge grounds yesterday are Patrobas Katambi (Shinyanga Urban-CCM), Saashisha Mafuwe (Hai-CCM), Deo Ndejembi (ChamwinoCCM), Pius Chaya (Manyoni East-CCM) and George Lubelege (Mpwapwa-CCM). Moreover, among the two opposition elected Members of Parliament, was Ms Aida Khenan (Nkasi North-- Chadema) who also showed up. Former Speaker, Mr Job Ndugai and former Deputy Speaker Dr Tulia Ackson were also among the Members of Parliament, who headed to the National Assembly’s Clerk Office to fulfill registration procedures. However, the turn up was high on Sunday, though all legislators will be expected to have reported for the exercise by Monday evening. President John Magufuli’s government is expected to start taking shape this week, when the name of the Prime Minister will be unveiled and voted for in the first meeting of the 12th Parliament that convenes as from Tuesday. According to Kagaigai, during the Parliamentary meeting, legislators will perform a number of duties, including electing the Speaker who will lead the House for the next five years. Kongwa Member of Parliament-elect, Job Ndugai was on Friday cleared by the ruling CCM’s Central Committee (CC) to vie for the post of Speaker. He will be required to win by two-thirds of the total valid votes cast by MPs. Article 90 (1) of the Constitution states that: “After General Elections, the President shall summon a New Parliament to meet before the expiration of seven days following the declaration of the results of the General Elections in all constituencies, save in those constituencies where the elections are countermanded and commenced afresh.” Mr Kagaigai said the convening of Parliament follows the Government Notice (GN) of President John Magufuli of November 5, Number 942 (A), through which, he summoned the House to business. Moreover, the Clerk of the National Assembly, through the Government Notice (GN)’s Special editions 1763(A), 1964 (B) of November 5, declared vacant the posts of Speaker and Deputy Speaker, thus calling for fresh elections to fill the vacancies. Giving the itinerary of the one-week Parliamentary meeting, the Clerk to the National Assembly said on Tuesday the Government Notice for summoning the Parliament will be ready before MPs embark on electing the Speaker and Deputy Speaker, who will later take oaths of office. Mbeya Urban legislator, Dr Tulia Ackson was also cleared by CCM Central Committee on Friday in Dodoma to vie for the post of Deputy Speaker. From there, the Speaker will swear in Members of Parliament, as Kagaigai insisted that only those with required documents like Certificates of Election from the Returning Officer(s) and appointment from their respective parties will be eligible for the exercise. He further insisted that Members of Parliament- elect must report to Dodoma with eight copies of their passport size photos, copies of their national ID, account number, marriage certificate for those married, birth certificates of their children aged below 18 years, and academic certificates as well as curriculum vitaes. The Parliament will then endorse the name of the Prime Minister, which will be submitted by President John Magufuli. Article 51 ( 2) of the Constitution states: “ As soon as possible, and in any case within fourteen days after assuming office, the President shall appoint a Member of Parliament elected from a constituency and a political party with majority of members in the National Assembly or, if no political party has a majority, who appears to have support of majority of the legislators, to be the Prime Minister of the United Republic, and he shall not assume office until his appointment is first confirmed by a resolution of the National Assembly and supported by a majority vote of the Members of Parliament.