MEMBERS of Parliament (MPs) have hailed President John Magufuli’s speech he delivered on Friday when he inaugurated the 12th Parliament, describing it as "comprehensive, straightforward and well-thought." Speaking in separate interviews after his address, the lawmakers said it clearly showed there was bright future for Tanzania and its people. In his speech President Magufuli made fresh promises on cross-cutting issues, clearly signalling that the country was on track. Dodoma Urban MP Anthony Mavunde (CCM) said President Magufuli's vision of a new Tanzania came mainly from his strategy to continue building the economy and bringing about development to Tanzanians. Mohamed Mchengelwa (Rufiji-CCM) said President Magufuli’s strategy to build roads to connect regions and districts would help make farmers take their produce to the market easily. The MP said the government’s decision to continue where it ended brought about high hopes of completing some unfinished business in all sectors of the economy, especially those related to social services. According to the MP, people still face water shortages, but as MPs, they will push for a fresh approach, including demanding each council to spend at least 1bn/- on purchasing borehole drilling machines for more groundwater projects. Makete MP Festo Sanga (CCM) said the strategy of constructing factories in each region would allow Makete and other areas to set up fruit, timber and bamboo factories. He said MPs would help outsourcing investors create jobs and enhance development and fight poverty. On formalising traditional and herbal medicine, Shinyanga Urban MP Patrobas Katambi (CCM) noted that areas such as Shinyanga would benefit as the decision would help unveil opportunities that had not been explored for decades. Some MPs also couldn't hide their feelings as the President announced to transfer Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) from the Prime Minister's Office to the Office of the President. Special Seats MP Lucy Mayenga (CCM) hoped that the decision would help increase accountability to executives and subsequently help lure more investments into the country. The idea was also supported by Simanjiro MP, Christopher Ole Sendeka (CCM). He said the President had set a good vision towards the country's economic development. He hailed the decision to open new areas of investment as well as efforts to increase local productivity. Tunduma MP David Silinde (CCM) said Tunduma, which positioned itself as a country's gateway to DRC, Zambia, Malawi and Zimbabwe, would now explore new business opportunities and improve the existing ones to help boost the country and people's economy. "This speech is a reflection of where we are heading as a nation," noted Lulindi MP Issa Mchungahela (CCM). He said the President had identified himself as a man of great vision. "Magufuli is a revolutionist who sees a need for boosting the economy through industrial and technological advancement."