TODAY, Tanzanians with invited guests have all eyes focused in Dodoma the capital city of Tanzania, where Dr John Pombe Magufuli is being sworn-in as the President of Tanzania. Having been chosen by the nationals with over 12 million votes to be the Head of State in the recently concluded elections through Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) ticket, Dr Magufuli is starting another term; many analysts predict will be a reign of pure development the country had never witnessed given his leadership qualities and pledges he made. Carrying the mantle of the State, with his previous record of serving all Tanzanians equally regardless of one’s political and religious background, President Magufuli, according to pledges he made to the electorates will mean business and we expect Tanzanians to accord his government all the support to realise his goals. As development will focus in his agenda as he has repeatedly said, Tanzanians expect all political parties to put aside their political differences and note that Tanzania is what unites us all, and to develop it, we must support a leader (read president) who has been chosen by the majority democratically to lead. Just like there is time for everything under the sun, for instance time for rain, time for sunshine, President Magufuli swearing-in today constitutionally shows that time has come for developing the country and no more politics. Whoever is still thinking of politics and unnecessary demonstrations baptized as peaceful, ought to realise that time and tide wait for no man. Equally, no country under the sun even those in the utopian world can take time throughout the year entertaining demonstrations, when its population wants good roads built, hospitals stuffed with drugs, and civil servants’ salaries paid. As his previous government has registered several developments in various sectors worth praise and seen in the community including raising livelihood of Tanzanians, we expect a man of action (President Magufuli) with his Hapa Kazi Tu slogan to lead and make the country scale another height in the economy. Leading by example, Tanzanians know President Magufuli to have restored discipline among public servants and that has resulted in increased productivity in service delivery. His past reign showed impressive achievements in the control of government expenditure and ensuring value for money in all state-funded projects as well as his anti-corruption drive that established a special anti-graft court and sacked scores of dishonest public officials, just to mention a few. All these, show that President Magufuli will walk his talk and Tanzanians should only wish him well and support his ideas, because after all they come back to build our nation, our Tanzania.