LEAPFROGS heralded the results of the Premier League matches staged yesterday at the various venues. Simba who mercilessly clobbered Mwadui 5-0 in Dar es Salaam and Polisi Tanzania who stunned Polisi Tanzania at home in Sumbawanga, inked the word leapfrog as Young Africans, among the winners of yesterday’s encounters were very close to leapfrog leaders Azam, but inferior goal average denied them that opportunity. Simba have leapfrogged Biashara United to regain their third position, while Polisi Tanzania climbed above four teams to challenge KMC at the fifth position. The best results of yesterday were stamped by Simba, who pulverized Mwadui with 5-0 blitz in the one-sided match staged yesterday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam; the hefty seems to be a furious response to their recent double loss. The victory has brought Simba back at the third position, leapfrogging the previous occupier, Biashara United who yesterday lost 1-0 at Karume Stadium in Musoma. Michael Sarpong netted the solitary goal that earned Yanga a 1-0 victory over Biashara United at Karume stadium in Musoma. The well attended match saw both teams finishing the first half in a barren draw despite both teams creating sizeable raids at each other’s goal. Yanga had to wait until the 64th minute through Sarpong who headed home Ditram Nchimbi’s volley from the right flank. The victory has earned Yanga 22 points similar to Azam, whose superior goal average gives them a ticket to occupy the league’s helm. Azam have carved +11 goal difference while Yanga have managed +9 (GD). Simba skipper John Bocco netted a brace as Ibrahim Ajib, Saidi Dilunga and Saidi Ndemla each scored in Simba’s five-goal blitz over Mwadui at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba who looked recovered from double-loss shock had to wait until the 25th minute to open their goals account through John Bocco. The score board remained 1-0 for Simba until the end of the first half. Almost twenty minutes after resumption, Bocco netted the second goal for Simba before Ibrahim Ajib scoring the third goal in the 82nd minute. The last three minutes saw Simba scoring two goals in quick succession. Hassan Dilunga added the fourth goal in the 87th minute, and before Saidi Ndemla sealing the goal book with the fifth goal at stoppage time. Simba are back at the third place with 16 points. Far away in Sumbawanga, the number of victims to Polisi Tanzania’s onslaught continues to swell, this time, it was Tanzania Prisons who fell into their trap. Playing away at Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga, Polisi Tanzania defeated Prisons by a solitary goal in a hotly contested encounter. The victory has heightened Polisi Tanzania to the fifth place with 14 points, tying with KMC, who previously occupied the position. At Azam Complex in Chamazi Dar es Salaam, JKT Tanzania forced hosts, Azam FC a 1-1 draw in the Premier League match held on Friday night. JKT scored the opener through Michael Aidan Pius in the 43rd minute before Azam equalised it in the 78th minute through Salum Abubakar ‘Sure Boy’. It was a goal galore at Gwambina Complex in Misungwi where KMC overpowered Gwambina with a hefty 3-0 victory. Lusajo Mwaikenda in the 43rd minute, Relliants Lusajo in the 87th minute and David Bryson in the stoppage time netted the goals for KMC.