SUSPECTED drug kingpin Ayubu Kiboko is alleged to have hidden in the toilet of his master bedroom some powdery substances which the prosecution assumes to be dangerous drugs. This was revealed at the High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday when a senior police officer was giving evidence in the trial of Kiboko and his wife Pilly Kiboko. Assistant Inspector of Police Emmanuel Ambilikile, who works with the Drug Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA), told Judge Lilian Mashaka that such powdery substances were seized in the house where the couple was living during a search conducted on May 23, 2018. The third prosecution witness revealed this when crossexamined by Advocate Majura Magafu, for the accused persons. The flour white powder into a clear plastic can which was labeled A was found inside the master bedroom in the toilet during the search exercise. Likewise, the witness said two other cans with powder suspected to be narcotic drugs which were labeled A1 and A2 were also seized at the same place. He also disclosed that some particles believed to be narcotic drugs labelled B were found into a light nylon bag inside a bedroom at ground floor. The witness also told the court that there were other particles inside a black bag that are suspected to be narcotic drugs, which were marked as C after the search exercise. They were retrieved at a shoe shelf along upstairs. The DCEA officer went on detailing that the bag was placed at the middle of shoes. During the examination, which was led by prosecuting attorney Kandit Nasua, the witness told the court that during the search exercise several other items, including three vehicles, two Land Cruiser, Toyota Prado and Toyota Hilux, were seized. Apart from the suspected drugs and the three motor vehicles, Assistant Inspector Ambilikile named other items seized from the house as one pistol of Brown make with seven rounds of ammunition and a box used for storing the firearm. The rest are one mobile phone of Nokia make, three CRDB Tembo Cards, one Umoja card, three spring files containing various documents, including that of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), a radio call, four passports and registration cards of the three motor vehicles, among others. During the hearing session, the witness told the court that the two other independent witnesses named as Christina Macha and Raymond Kimabo, who are neighbours to the accused persons, attended the search exercise. According to him, the exercise was held at night at around 2.00am and was concluded at around 7.00 in the morning. After the searching exercise, the witness said that he prepared a seizure certificate which was later signed by him, witnesses and the two accused persons. He stated that thereafter he and other officers who had accompanied him left the scene together with the accused persons and the seized items as well as the three vehicles to DCEA offices for other procedural matters. In the trial, Kiboko and his wife Pilly are charged by the prosecution with trafficking in narcotic drugs. It is alleged that on May 23, 2018 at TegetaNyuki area in Kinondoni District, Dar es Salaam, the couple trafficked in heroin hydrochloride, which are narcotic drugs, weighing 251.25 grammes.