NUTRITIONISTS have advised people living with HIV/Aids to focus on good nutrition to strengthen the immune system and slow down the spread of peripheral diseases. Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre (TFNC) Nutritional Research Officer Rose Msaki said many people living with HIV/Aids did not adhere to a healthy diet, including eating natural foods from the five food groups “We continue reminding the community to eat adequate food since lack of it can weaken the body and lead to malnutrition,” she said. Ms Msaki said good nutrition strengthened the body immune system and enabled antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) to work effectively and prevent severe attacks of peripheral diseases. “Every resident is advised to eat a balanced diet from the five food groups which are carbohydrates that give you energy, calcium and B vitamins. Proteins are found in meat and fish which are also rich in iron and other vitamins,” she explained. She mentioned others as dairy products, fruits and vegetables, which she said they were rich in vitamins, antioxidants and fibres that were essential for the digestive system. Moreover, it’s important not to consume a lot of foods rich in fats and sugar as they are rich in calories, but not in nutrition. Nutritionists also mentioned other nutritional guidelines that persons living with HIV/Aids were advised to consider in improving their health. “We remind people living with HIV/Aids to eat whole grains to boost the immune system and help the body fight against infections,” she noted. Ms Msaki stressed that people living with HIV/Aids should eat iron-rich foods, including meat, liver and food spices like ginger to improve and increase appetite. Moreover, the community has been reminded to use iodised salt and reduce the use of additional salt, while eating to avoid diseases such as hypertension. She called members of the community to reduce alcohol consumption as it affected the ability of ARVs to work effectively since they aimed at strengthening the immune system. Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre is the technical arm of the government through the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children. It spearheads national response to nutrition and ensure a coordinated, effective and efficient approach to tackle malnutrition.