SAFARI Lager Nyama Choma’s Competition has been running for 15 days and will come to an end this Sunday (November 29, 2020) at Governors Pub, the event that will involve entertainment and all kinds of vibe. Safari Lager being the experienced innovator of the Nyama Choma, it’s held these competitions in the past years and has decided to bring back such a prestigious event that goes hand in hand with entertainment. Speaking to journalists, Safari Lager’s Brand Manager, Pamela Kikuli clarified “This time the competition was organised by real brand Ltd. It involved 60 bars, all located in Dar es Salaam. They were nominated by fans via the Safari Lager social media pages and a given special number. People had a direct access to vote and rate the meat after testing it in the outlet they were in. The judges for the competition are Fred Uisso and Hassanal Mhisa. Fred Uisso is currently running a very famous and most loved TV Reality cooking show known as MASAPTA SAPTA, He has inspired majority of food lovers. In 2016, he was in the World Chef Champions (Steak Recipes and Chefs Challenge category), held in USA. Judge Hassanal Msiha is tutor and head Chef at Zanzibar Transworld Academy and is among the few passionate Chefs in Tanzania specialised in Hot Kitchen, pastry and BBQ with seven years working experience in the similar field. He emerged number two in the Africa’s Nelson Mandela Culinary Challenge held in South Africa. The winner will receive 2m/-, a branded Apron, a chef hat and will get to participate in the Nyama Choma festival to be staged in Dar es Salaam on December 4th and the 5th this year. Also the winning bar will enjoy a heavy party and cash will be handled to the bar, brand their bar for their event and the bar will as well get advertised through Safari social media. After Dar es Salaam, the next stop is Moshi in Kilimanjaro where bars will join the competition and receive the same flavour, the same vibe and the same treatment like in the Dar es Salaam event. Lager Nyama Choma competition, apart from aiming at motivating bars to value their BBQ services by adding value in it, it has also motivated them to value hygiene in their services which is among the most important aspect in BBQ