FINALLY political dusts have settled and Tanzanians are back to development and whoever is still thinking of wooing votes, or inciting his henchmen to go to the streets, because he did not manage to become victorious does not know the rules in the game. Already Opposition presidential candidates who battled it out with President elected, Dr John Magufuli, have conceded defeat, and unanimously paid tribute to the National Electoral Commission (NEC) for delivering a free, fair, transparent and credible election. Bravo to them for playing mature politics. Besides this, congratulatory messages have started trickling in from nations around the world, saluting Dr John Magufuli for winning the General Election, where in one of the messages, China expressed its optimism that under the leadership of Dr Magufuli, Tanzania will make greater progress in national development. “We look forward to enhancing cooperation with the new Tanzanian government to bring bilateral relations to a new height,” said Mr Wang Wenbin, the Spokesperson of China’s Foreign Affairs Ministry. Reaching to neighbouring Kenya, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Dr Magufuli’s re-election demonstrates the deep love, confidence and trust the people of Tanzania have in his leadership. He added: “We in Kenya look forward to continuing working with your administration for the benefit of the people of our two nations, for the prosperity of East Africa and for the peace, stability and growth of the African continent.” For his part, the President of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni said that his country was looking forward to working more closely with Tanzania. “Congratulations to His Excellency @MagufuliJP and Chama Cha Mapinduzi Party on the resounding victory in the just-concluded elections, Uganda looks forward to working even more closely with you and the people of Tanzania to deepen our social, economic and political ties. Hongera!,” said president Museveni on his twitter account. These among others draw the conclusion that campaigns and elections are now gone, what is ahead is development. Children want school fees, communities want water, hospitals, roads repaired and impassable opened up. With these at the background, the Tanzania Police Force must be supported to ensure that any politician(s) and their followers who still intend to engage themselves in illegal demonstrations are enemies of development. On that breathe, any inflammatory statement issued by leaders of CHADEMA and ACT Wazalendo political parties, who convened a media conference in Dar es Salaam, declaring that beginning Monday (today) there would be non-stop demonstrations should be trashed.