THERE is a high possibility that after December 31 this year, any employee without taxpayer’s identification number (TIN) will not get his/her salary paid. The wakeup call comes a few days after the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) issued a reminder to all employees countrywide to have a TIN before the date. TRA Director for Taxpayer Services and Education, Mr Richard Kayombo told the ‘Daily News’ in a telephone interview that the new requirement demands employers to also electronically file their employees’ tax returns known as Pay as You Earn (PAYE). “Employers will have to file a list incorporating the amount which have been deducted in the employees’ salaries, its most likely those without TINs might not be able to access their salaries after the deadline,” said Mr Kayombo. He pointed out that the exercise of securing the TIN online is ongoing and urged employees to follow the necessary steps to obtain them as a crucial credential. The director, however, noted that the process of obtaining a national identification card or number which is among requirement of securing a TIN has also been simplified. “People are continuing smoothly with the online registration for free, in case of any hurdle(s) our Help Desk is always there to offer assistance,” he said. Equally, Mr Kayombo urged people to capitalize on the remaining period to acquire their TINs to overcome any unintended consequences. According to a public notice issued by TRA in Habari Leo Newspaper on Tuesday, employees who currently do not have the TIN or the national identification card/ number issued by the National Identification Authority can visit their nearest TRA offices for finger prints and photo taking. Also for employers with employees not having TINs, should temporarily use TIN number 999 999 999 to file the tax return of salaries. “There will be no any room for extending the deadline after December 31, this year, and people should fulfill their obligations as a requirement of the law,” read the notice.