DIRECTOR of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has dropped money laundering and economic crime-related charges against two directors after agreeing to compensate the government over 267m/- in a plea bargaining agreement to end the criminal trial they were facing. Baraka Mtunga, (43), an engineer living at Mbezi Beach and Rajabu Katunda, (42), a businessman living at Mikocheni, paid 200m/- instantly at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam and promised to settle the remaining amount of 67, 656,794/30 within six months. Initially, the two persons, who are Directors of Selcom Broadband Limited, were charged with six economic charges relating to fraudulent use of communication network and occasioning loss of over 267m/- to the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA). Other charges include leading organised crime, installation of electronic communication equipment without a licence, operating network facilities without licence, fraudulent use of network facilities and money laundering. However, in October 2020, the two directors wrote to the DPP expressing their intention to enter into plea bargaining agreement in order to end the matter. The DPP accepted the request of the two persons and decided to drop four out of the charges they were facing. The DPP retained the charge of fraudulent use of network facilities and occasioning loss to a specified authority. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, presented the new charges against the accused persons before Principal Resident Magistrate Kassian Matembele. Having been read over the charges and the prosecution presenting memorandum of facts, the two accused persons pleaded guilty. The magistrate, under such circumstances, convicted them on their own plea of guilty to the two charges. The magistrate sentenced each of them to pay 1m/- as fine or go to jail for two years on the offence of fraudulent use of network facilities and also fined them each 500,000/- or be jailed two years in default of paying the fine for occasioning loss to TCRA. Both of them paid the fine in question. Before being sentenced, the trial attorney requested the court to take into consideration the nature of the offence committed, while Advocate Hajra Mungula, for the accused persons, appealed for lenient sentence because her clients have no criminal records and that have families, who depend on them. It was alleged that on diverse dates between December 13, 2019 and September 28, 2020 at Saadan National Park at Kajanjoo Village in Bagamoyo District, Coast Region, with intent to avoid rates payable for transmission of internet services, the two persons transmitted internet application services. According to the prosecution, between December 13, 2019 and September 28, 2020 at Saadan National Park in Bagamoyo District, Coast Region, and in Dar es Salaam City, knowingly and by their willful acts, the two accused caused the TCRA to suffer pecuniary loss of 267,656,794/30/-. Facts show that the objective of Selcom Company Limited, among other things, is to engage in and carry on the business of installation and management of all types of telecommunication equipment, plants and components. In 2011, in order to implement such objective, the two persons applied and obtained from TCRA the national application services licence, which was issued on November 30, 2011 and expired on November 30, 2016.