THE Judiciary of Tanzania has introduced a public awareness programme, aimed at providing education to citizens on various procedures of pursuing justice and how courts at various levels operate. This was revealed in an exclusive interview with Resident Magistrate in Charge of Mwanza Resident Magistrates’ Court Monica Ndyekobora, who urged residents to attend legal-related public education programmes, which would help them realise their rights. Ms Ndyekobora told ‘Daily News’ at the weekend that the programme was offered on a weekly basis, mostly on Thursdays. She was, however, quick to point out that it seemed that only those with cases on such a particular day attended the programme. “A public education programme is for all. People should know how far the court has stepped ahead in terms of best and timely delivery of justice, including the introduction of an electronic service delivery system,” she said. According to the magistrate, e-filing of cases, e-library, the Tanzania Advocates System Management and Judicial Visual Court serve, among other things, in file tracking and easy communications among judicial officers in various departments of the court as well as between the court and members of the public. She stressed that since the electronic service delivery system was transparent in nature with every staff having access to every document, then file loss, delays in the issuance of judgment and case proceeding copies are now history in the judiciary. Ms Ndyekobora revealed that the Judiciary directed its officers to release copies of rulings or judgments within 21 days from the date of delivery. In this area, the magistrate explained that the Mwanza Resident Magistrates’ Court had moved further steps forward as such documents were offered within seven days from the judgment’s date delivery. “It is because the magistrates are typing the copies of judgment by themselves, instead of assigning their personal secretaries as it used to be previously,” the magistrate said. She added that the Court also communicated or rather visited inmates in various remand prisons to create awareness on judicial services. “If they face any challenges, we address them immediately. All these court services should be communicated to citizens so that they can know court improvements that have been made. That is why, we insist them to attend our public education programme,” she reiterated.