THE Chairman of Simba Board of Directors, Mohamed Dewji has cleared dust on the team’s midfield maestro, Clatous Chama saying he is an eligible player whose signed contract with the club expires in 2022. As well, Dewji warned those seeking to snatch the club’s speedy midfielder, Luis Miquissone that they have to wait for over three years until 2023 when his contract comes to an end. Prior to Mo’s meeting with reporters in Dar es Salaam, it was widely rumoured that the Zambian import was on move to cross to their traditional rivals Young Africans claiming the player has not renewed his contract with the Msimbazi street side. On opposite to Chama speculation to cross to Yanga, social media outlets widely reported that Simba were on hunt of Tonombe Mukoko signature as a response to Chama move. On that Mo said everything being circulated about Tonombe is propaganda, and insisted that Simba didn’t have any intention to recruit the Congolese midfielder. “Simba has never discussed anything about Tonombe and is not interested in signing him as being wrongly circulated in the social media outlets,” he said. The widely circulated rumours that Chama intended to cross to Yanga, according to Mo worried Simba fans due to the player’s immense contribution to the club’s success. “He is not going anywhere he will stay with us. He has nothing to do with Yanga, don’t worry anymore about that,” Mo assured Simba supporters and fans. “ I don’t know the source of rumours that rocked the nation that Chama intends to join Yanga. I assure you he remains at Simba and that is the end of the debate,” concluded Mo. He said everything about recruiting a player to serve Simba is tasked to the head coach and the technical bench. "The coach is one who can suggest the type of a player who fits in his squad or game plan. We have never discussed anything about him at Simba,” he insisted. But, what he clarified is that Simba are looking for the holding midfielder to replace Gerson Fraga who is still nursing injuries. However, according to Dewji the whole process of recruiting Fraga’s replacement won’t be a public issue. “It won’t be an open issue and that doesn’t mean that we are scared of the local and foreign teams, but we sense a stiff opposition from the both sides as the fast track riders,” he added. The widely circulated rumours that Chama intended to cross to Yanga, according to Mo worried Simba fans due to the player’s immense contribution to the club’s success. “He is not going anywhere he will stay with us. He has nothing to do with Yanga, don’t worry anymore about that,” Mo assured Simba supporters and fans. “I don’t know the source of rumours that rocked the whole nation that Chama intends to join Yanga. I assure you he remains at Simba and that is the end of the debate,” concluded Mo