PRESIDENT John Magufuli has pledged to improve all sorts of development related infrastructures countywide. Inaugurating the 12th Parliament on Friday in Dodoma, Dr Magufuli stated that the government will procure five airplanes, one of which will be for cargo shipment. The cargo plane will be an answer to the long cry by stakeholders, especially to the horticultural society that has been seeing some of its perishable products going bad due to transport delays. In terms of roads, President Magufuli said that the government will complete construction of 2,500 kilometres roads and construct new 6,006 kilometres to tarmac level. He said that 11 airports will be renovated and new ones, including Msalato Airport in Dodoma, while runways at Iringa, Lake Manyara, Kilwa, Lindi and others will be improved. Elaborating, he noted that the country is set to be the main gateway in terms of transport and tourism given its strategic position. Equally, he assured the legislators who had promised infrastructures in their constituencies to rest assured that implementation will be done effectively. In his new pitch, he said seven main bridges will be repaired including building new ones and 14 more citing the Kigongo-Busisi in Lake Victoria being among them. In his address which largely focused on the ruling party CCM 2020-2025 election manifesto, Dr Magufuli said road traffic will be strategically decreased, specifically in Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma and Mwanza. He said the Central Railway Line and Tanzania Zambia Railway (TAZARA) will also be improved for efficiency as well as the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro to be completed. In the new chart, he said the government will buy 39 new train heads and repair 38 engines. Ports such as Tanga, Mtwara as well as those in Lake Tanganyika and Nyasa will be improved by broadening their capacities, let alone purchasing a new ship to ply the Indian Ocean and a Ferry Wagon for Lake Victoria. However, President Magufuli pledged that in the Capital Dodoma infrastructure will be improved with more offices and houses for public servants to be constructed.