TODAY is a make or break day for Young Africans, currently perched at the top of the league, in their attempt to recapture their lost glory. If they beat their traditional rivals, Simba they would have managed to do two very important things for themselves. One, they would have further secured their position at the apex of the league, through the bagging in of three points. And secondly, but more importantly, the victory would provide their players with the much needed confidence. Young Africans need confidence because on the paper, Simba are a more drilled side not only through the pedigree of their players, but also because the club has more or less maintained the same squad. Today is also the best day for Young Africans to win because a number of key Simba players are reported not to be in a very good frame of mind on account of injuries. Until a few days ago, it was not clear whether the four key players would have fully recovered from their injuries to fit to play today. Therefore, if there is anytime Young Africans have the golden opportunity of beating Simba that time and day is today. If they leave Simba off the hook today, then they can kiss their league title hopes bye bye. That is why they have to beat Simba today in order to keep their league title hopes and dreams on. But if they draw or lose to Simba today, they should simply forget winning he league this season. It’s just as good as that. For those who believe on the stroke of luck, the scheduled starting time for the match, 5pm, is very good for Young Africans. The Jangwani Street club has never started a match against their traditional rivals at 5pm and gone on to lose the match! The scheduled kick off time is not good for Simba. Nothing would give Young Africans the tonic to win the league than beating Simba today. Of course, both teams have prepared extremely hard for the match today. Simba who had lost two matches in a row, went on to win their last two matches. They also managed to beat by two clear goals, even Kagera Sugar, one of the teams they have in the past always had problems against. That should actually serve as a warning to their arch soccer rivals. For teams which have always troubled Simba are both Sugar teams and Prisons. Indeed, we all know what happened to Simba when they played Prisons in their newly selected backyard in Rukwa region. They were beaten by one goal to nil. Simba now expect to take on Prisons in the second round of the Vodacom Premier League. Prisons have also always presented problems to Young Africans. But the problem with the team is that they have always failed to produce the same performance against other weak teams in the league. And that explains why they have always not done well in the league apart from dodging the drop zone of the league. One hopes that the Simba-Yanga encounter today would live to its billing, namely, that of the country’s soccer giants. More often than not in the past, such derbies have been marred by rough play and poor refereeing which have sometimes left wondering whether we really have referees in this country. Although the country’s football governing body has always said it regards the Simba-Yanga derby just like any league pairing. But the kind of preparations they make for East Africa’s best known derby has always painted a different picture from their pronouncements! Let’s hope that this time around the hundreds of thousands of soccer fans who thronged the newly Christened Benjamin William Mkapa Stadium from the wee hours of the morning today would be treated to a derby worthy its name. It would also be the first time that the Simba, Yanga derby is being played in a stadium with a new name having been known in the past simply as the National Stadium. One hopes that the same thing would be done to the national soccer team which likes the stadium’s erstwhile name, national is also known by the same name, but in Kiswahili, that reads Taifa Stars or Nyota wa Taifa! To me, this is neither here nor there. Why not call Kilimanjaro Stars and provide the team’s logo with the picture of the highest roof in the continent? Why are we shy in making use of some of the country’s best tourist destinations in the world? I’m quite sure if this mountain was located in Kenya, as they have always wished, they would have long made use of it. We could do the same thing with our other teams. For instance, Serengeti would remain so for our U-17 national soccer team and Twiga would continue to remain so for their sisters. I have brought this debate today because I think the day provides the right climate and spirit to exchange views on the name of our national soccer team. May the best team win today.