THE Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) has told local athletes to stay focused for summer Olympics Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan next year. The games initially were to be held mid this year but were postponed by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) from its tradition dates in the wake of Coronavirus global pandemic. TOC secretary general Filbert Bayi said that the local athletes should not relax as the next dates for the much-anticipated games are just around the corner. Bayi, who is still the 1500m Commonwealth Games record holder, said that despite the summer games’ postponement, other athletes globally who are determined to excel in the games are still in serious preparations. “The games are likely to be on, they should see the green light,’ said Bayi, who smashed world records and revolutionised running during his illustrious career. "Our athletes have been magnificent in their positive attitude to training and preparing for the games,” “I urge them to continue training hard and make sure that they excel,” said Bayi. The issue of Coronavirus has also forced some great runners to train in their respective native countries following travel restrictions aimed at reducing the race of infections globally. "While there will still be much to work out as a result of this change, the timing will allow athletes from around the world to properly prepare,” said Bayi. IOC believes that coronavirus crisis will globally be under control as Tokyo will be hosting the games. The Coronavirus pandemic has however, affected several Olympic Qualifying series as the final ones are due to take place early next year. Bayi urged the Tanzania Boxing Federation (TBF) to use effectively their final qualification series in Paris, France in May and make sure that they secure tickets for the games. This will be the second attempt for the boxers after failing to do so in Dakar, Senegal in February this year. Tanzania, according to Bayi is also expected to feature athletes in swimming and athletics should they qualify. According to Athletics Tanzania (AT) information officer, Tullo Chambo, only two runners have so far qualified for the grueling event. They are Alphonce Simbu and Failuna Matanga Failuna, who was the first Tanzanian to seal a ticket for Tokyo Olympic Games after finishing third in Hamburg Marathon last year by clocking 2 hours, 27 minutes and 55 seconds behind Kenyan and Ethiopian runners. She hit the beating the qualifying time by almost two minutes. Simbu who competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in the men's marathon and finished 5th with a time of 2:11.15 also won a bronze medal for the country in the men's marathon at the IAAF 2017. Several other Olympic bodies had written to the IOC requesting that the Olympics be postponed as others were against it for the global Olympic body making such a rash decision.