MANY people get nervous or self-conscious on occasion, like when giving a speech or interviewing for a new job. But social anxiety disorder, or social phobia, is more than just shyness or occasional nerves. It involves intense fear of certain social situations especially situations that are unfamiliar or in which you feel you’ll be watched or evaluated by others. Many people feel shy or self-conscious on occasion, yet it doesn’t get in the way of their everyday functioning. Social anxiety disorder, on the other hand, does interfere with your normal routine and causes tremendous distress. For example, it’s perfectly normal to get the jitters before giving a speech. But if you have social anxiety, you might worry for weeks ahead of time, call in sick to get out of it, or start shaking so bad during the speech that you can hardly speak. Someone with social anxiety disorder is afraid that he or she will make mistakes, look bad, and be embarrassed or humiliated in front of others. Most of the time, the person is aware that the fear is unreasonable, yet is unable to overcome it. They have twisted thinking, including false beliefs about social situations and the negative opinions of others. They also often suffer from the fear of a situation for days or weeks before the event happens. Social anxiety can manifest physical symptoms, including confusion, pounding heart, sweating, shaking, blushing, muscle tension, upset stomach, and diarrhea among others. Children with social anxiety disorder experience also experience extreme distress over everyday situations such as playing with other kids, reading in class, speaking to adults, or taking tests. Often, children with social phobia don’t even want to go to school. The cause of social anxiety disorder can either be biological, psychological, and environmental factors. Psychological factors can be due to traumatic social experiences in the past, such as being bullied, neglected or humiliated by peers, while environmental factors can be due to observing the behaviour of others or seeing what happened to someone else as the result of their behaviour (such as being laughed). Moreover, children who are sheltered or overprotected by their parents may not learn good social skills as part of their healthy development. Social anxiety is actually quite common and many people struggle with these fears. But the situations that trigger the symptoms can be different. Some people experience anxiety in most social situations. For others, anxiety is connected to specific social situations, such as speaking to strangers, mingling at parties, or performing in front of an audience. Common social anxiety triggers include: Meeting new people, making small talk, public speaking, being the centre of attention, being watched while doing something, being teased or criticised, going on a date, and eating or drinking in public among other triggers. While it may seem like there’s nothing you can do about the symptoms, in reality, there are many things that can help. The first step is challenging your mentality. Social anxiety sufferers have negative thoughts and beliefs that contribute to their fears and anxiety, challenging these negative thoughts is an effective way to reduce the symptoms. It can be incredibly scary to think about why you feel and think the way you do, but understanding the reasons for your anxieties will help lessen their negative impact on your life. The 2nd tip is to focus on others, not yourself but not on what they’re thinking of you! Instead, do your best to engage them and make a genuine connection. Note that when we’re in a social situation that makes us nervous, many of us tend to get caught up in our anxious thoughts and feelings. You may be convinced that everyone is looking at you and judging you. Your focus is on your bodily sensations, hoping that by paying extra close attention you can better control them. Switching from an internal to an external focus can go a long way toward reducing social anxiety. The 3rd tip is to learn to control your breathing. Many changes happen in your body when you become anxious. One of the first changes is that you begin to breathe quickly. Over breathing throws off the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide in your body leading to a more physical symptoms of anxiety, such as dizziness, a feeling of suffocation, increased heart rate, and muscle tension. Learning to slow your breathing down can help bring your physical symptoms of anxiety back under control. One other most helpful thing you can do to overcome social anxiety is to face the social situations you fear rather than avoid them. While avoiding nerve-wracking situations may help you feel better in the short term, it prevents you from becoming more comfortable in social situations and learning how to cope in the long term. Make an effort to be more social by actively seeking out supportive social environments. No matter how awkward or nervous you feel in the company of others, you can learn to silence selfcritical thoughts, boost your self-esteem, and become more confident and secure in your interactions with others. You don’t have to change your personality. Note that the mind and the body are basically linked so how you treat your body can have a significant effect on your anxiety levels, your ability to manage anxiety symptoms, and your overall self-confidence. No matter how painfully shy you may be and no matter how bad the butterflies, you can learn to be comfortable in social situations and reclaim your life. Note that if you’ve tried the self-help techniques above and you’re still struggling with disabling social anxiety, you may need professional help as well. The Author, Racheal Masibo, is an Assistant Lecturer at St John’s University of Tanzania (SJUT)-School of Nursing, P.O BOX 47 Dodoma Tanzania. Email: rackelmasibo@yahoo. com Mobile: 0717513598