US Embassy in Dar es Salaam has said is keen to attract more investors to the country. The move came when the Embassy Senior Commercial Officer Mr Ken Walsh paid a visit to Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) last week and called for enhanced cooperation between the two. Mr Walsh, who held talks with the centre’s Executive Director Dr Maduhu Kazi, expressed his office’s interest and willingness to organize a business and investment forum to bring together members of the US Chamber of Commerce and the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA). He added that the aim of the envisaged forum will be to identify more business and investment opportunities, joint venture projects, to attract capital, exchange experience and to seek new markets. The senior official, who has been in the country for the past two months, visited TIC to, among other things, introduce himself and to express his readiness to work with the centre to bolster business and investment between Tanzania and the US. He said that among his responsibilities in the country is to get information on all available investment opportunities in the country and promote the same to businessmen/investors in the US. Mr Walsh therefore called for close cooperation between TIC and his office in all matters involving business and investment for mutual benefits of the two countries. Welcoming Mr Walsh, Dr Kazi thanked the US senior official for paying him a courtesy call and assured him that the centre is ready to work with the US Embassy to enhance business and investment ties between the two countries. The TIC executive director also briefly outlined key sectors which US investors may take interest in as agriculture, industries, fisheries, livestock, tourism, technology and infrastructure. According to TIC, some 331 projects have been registered between 1997 and 2020 which created employment to 49,272 people. The US is among the top ten countries with registered projects at TIC in diverse sectors including industries, agriculture, transportation and natural resources.