THE Chairman of Tanzanian People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club, Michael Luwongo is satisfied with the level of performance his players displayed at the just ended TPC Open Golf tournament. Lugalo brought nine golfers at TPC course for the annual national tournament jointly organized by TPC Club and Tanzania Golf Union (TGU). The nine golfers were among the top finishers of the 36 holes tournament. Prior to the tournament Luwongo challenged the club’s golfers to play well and bring home trophies. Lugalo golfers who participated in TPC Open included the team’s captain Kibuna Shaaban, Selemani Semunyu, Nicolaus Chitanda, Hadija Selemani, John Hiza, Samweli Kileo, Halidi Shemndolwa, Malius Kajuna and Laurent Sangawe. According to the Lugalo Communication officer Semunyu, the Lugalo club dominated the Men’s Division B battle by taking all top prizes. Lugalo’s Private Sangawe impressed with aggregates 149 net stroke to win the Division B title by three shots. Sangawe beat his club-mate Private Shemndolwa who carded total 152 net after the end of two 36- hole event. “Yes I challenge youths to do justice at the event, I understand it is a national event played in gross format which traditionally must be very good as it brought together all top golfers across the country, Iam satisfied with the level of their performance and results attained,” he said. He added that Division B dominance at the event it gives him courage that with more efforts the club’s players can advance to the next level by clinching the overall gross titles. The tournament saw TPC Club player George Sembi beating other top golfers to win this year’s title. National team member Sembi impressed with aggregates gross of 147 strokes, while Vincent Gullo also of TPC, finished second with 149 gross strokes. He won on countback over Lugalo player Isihaka Daudi a product from the Lugalo youth development programme. Division A title went to Nahuum Gabriel who grossed 147 strokes while Juma Mcharo with 148 strokes finished second. Sahif Kanabhai of Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) won the Division C with 144 nett as Issa Issa of TPC with 147 nett finished overall second. National Ladies team player Madina Iddi hit aggregate 146 net to win ladies title as AGC’s club-mate Neema Ulomi came second, while the senior player’s prize went to Ashik Nanabhai of AGC.