GOMBE National Park, also known as is located in western Kigoma Region, Tanzania, 10 miles (20 km) north of Kigoma, the capital of Kigoma Region. Established in 1968, Gombe is one of the smallest national parks in Tanzania, with only 13.5 square miles (35 km2) of protected land along the hills of the eastern shore of Lake Tanganyika. The terrain is distinguished by steep valleys, and the forest vegetation ranges from grassland to woodland to tropical rainforest. Accessible only by boat the park is most famous as the location where Jane Goodall pioneered her behavioral research conducted on the chimpanzee populations. The Kasekala chimpanzee community, featured in several books and documentaries, lives in Gombe National Park. Gombe’s high levels of diversity make it an increasingly popular tourist destination. Besides chimpanzees, primates inhabiting Gombe include beachcomber olive baboons, Red colobus, red-tailed monkeys, blue monkeys, and vervet monkeys Red-tailed monkeys and blue monkeys have also been known to hybridize in the area. The park is also home to over 200 bird species and bushpigs. There are also many species ofsnakes, and occasional hippopotami and leopards. Visitors to the park can trek into the forest to view the chimpanzees, as well as swim and snorkel in Lake Tanganyika with almost 100 kinds of colorful cichlid fish. Gombe’s chimps are the main attraction, but the park is also home to a troop of habituated olive babon that can usually be found on the lake score. There are several other monkey species present including red colobus monkey which are sometimes hunted by the chimps. Gombe lays at the shore of Lake Tanganyika the forest lush and divided by 13 streams that run down the escarpment to the sandy beach. To swim out and at the way the forested slopes climb up the steep escarpment is an unforgettable experience Gombe has a pleasant, relatively cloudless Dry season (May to October) and a humid, stormy Wet season (November to April). One of the best things about the drier months is the absence of cold nights. The coolest it gets is around 15°C/59°F, which isn’t bad. A lot of water can get dumped on the park when the rains come, but these usually arrive late in the day and don’t last long