IN a bid to intensify fight against Covid-19 and address its impacts on environmental statistics and climatic change statistics, Tanzania has been appointed to chair the seventh Experts Group on Environment Statistics (EGES) meeting. The meeting brought together approximately 100 experts in environment statistics and climate change statistics studies. A statement issued by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS)’s Acting Director of Population Census and Social Statistics, Ruth Minja, who attended and chaired it virtually via UN headquarters was started on 10th November, 2020 and will wind up on Wednesday. According to her, the meeting that addressed key topics including Covid-19 pandemic and environment statistics, its impacts and responses to the public also focused on international data collection and reporting requirements as well as water statistics. “The seventh meeting of the experts group of environment is virtually in progress under the chairperson, Ruth Minja and is expected to come up with several recommendations on environment statistics” it read in part. Equally, the Statistical Commission in its 44th session in 2013 endorsed the revised Framework for the Development of Environment Statistics (FDES 2013) to strengthen environment statistics programmes in countries, and recognise it as a useful tool in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Post-2015 Development Agenda. The Commission endorsed the blue print for action which documents a way forward for making the FDES 2013 operational in countries, which require guidance in starting or developing their environment statistics programmes. It also endorsed the establishment of the Expert Group on Environment Statistics (EGES) to collaborate with UNSD to develop supporting methodological tools, handson guidance, and training materials which contribute to the implementation of the FDES 2013 in countries as evidenced in the growing number of countries publishing FDES coherent environment statistics compendia in several languages. The EGES was convened in 2014 and comprises experts on environment statistics and related areas from all geographical regions representing United Nations member States, as well as international and regional organisations. The EGES meets annually to review the progress made in the implementation of the FDES 2013 in countries. It also assesses the progress made in the development of methodological and data collection guidance in environment statistics needed for the compilation of environmentally-related SDG indicators and environmental-economic accounts. Complementarily, during each calendar year, the EGES organises its work remotely through smaller teams tasked with specific areas of work. Tanzania published for the first time the National Environment Statistics Report 2017 and produced the National EWaste Statistics Report, 2019 for Tanzania Mainland.