AZAM FC have a chance to get back to winning ways in the progressing Mainland Premier League when they face Biashara United at Karume Stadium in Mara, Musoma today. The game will be tough mainly considering the fact that the hosts (Biashara United) usually become a hard to break rock when playing at their turf, especially when facing the big three teams in the league (Simba, Yanga or Azam). With 18 points in the bag, a positive outcome for them after the normal period of play will drive them to 21 points from 13 games as such, they will not let the visitors to easily dominate them. However, it has been a rocky ride for Azam recently in the league as they have succumbed to two straight defeats against KMC and Young Africans leading to the sacking of Romanian Head Coach Aristica Cioaba. The two parties went separate ways after mutual understanding to terminate the contract as the employer claimed that they were not satisfied with the overall performance of the team. This means today’s game will be under the tutelage of Bahati Vivian who previously served as the right hand man to the fired coach as such, he has the past to bring them to the winning formula as fast as necessary. According to the club’s Information Officer Thabit Zakaria, they will announce the new coach in the near future but for now, Vivian will be in charge of the affairs beginning with today’s encounter. “What surprised us most was that morale in the squad dropped from our eighth match of the season and when the board asked then coach (Cioaba) to clarify what was happening, he said he was not aware that is why the decision to release him was reached,” he said recently. Azam’s victory will see them trimming the league gap at the top of the table to three points while a defeat will enable the current leaders Yanga to enjoy the established six point distance at the summit of the log. On the sad note, Azam will miss their leading goal scorer Prince Dube who is nursing injury he picked in their 1-0 loss to Yanga at Azam Complex on Tuesday last week.