SIMBA Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck has admitted that he has not yet collected enough information about their opponents in the upcoming CAF Champions League (CAF CL) Plateau United from Nigeria. The country’s CAF CL envoys are set to begin their campaign away in a match to be played between November 27th to 29th while the return leg is scheduled between December 4th to 6th in Dar es Salaam. But, speaking here after guiding his team to a goalless draw against First Division League (FDL) side African Sports at Azam Complex on Monday, Vandenbroeck said he is not fully aware about Plateau United as their league is not being broadcast. “The last time their league was broadcast was in 2008 but I know that they are playing friendly games. Until now, we do not know which venue we will play at as they are a bit tricky trying to put sand in our eyes. “So, it will be a game that we will go for our own system of play without knowing how our opponents play as such, we will be able to make changes concerning where to adapt during the game,” he said. Vandenbroeck continued: “It is difficult to prepare but sometimes, when you are not prepared, you become more focused because you do not know what is coming and you will always be sharp... maybe we need that.” In a related development, the coach disclosed that losing Brazilian midfielder Gerson Fraga is a big loss for the team as he brought aggressivity and balance in the team hence probably, they will go for his position to find a suitable replacement. This was a response to the recommendation made by CAF that clubs which will parade in the CAF CL are free to sign extra players to beef up their respective squads. Also, the Belgian trainer narrated that so far, they have received many Curriculum Vitaes (CVs) of people searching for the post of goalkeeper coach saying CVs alone cannot help to get a competitive coach for the goalies. “For now, it is difficult to get free good coaches as leagues are unfolding but for me, I would rather like to see them in person providing training to the keepers and make judgement afterwards other than judging from the CVs we are receiving,” he said. About the friendly match, Vandenbroeck remarked that the results were as not important to him but rather the performance from his players. “It was good to see Young players playing together with senior players. Some of them performed well than others but all in all, seeing them developing is the essential thing which needs to be encouraged,” he said. African Sports are currently leading group A of the FDL with 12 points after winning all their four matches in the contest and are yet to taste the sour part of the competition. They showed a good tactical display to deny creative Simba players like Clatous Chama and Bernard Morrison from causing damages throughout the match.