THE government has urged public leaders to focus on solution-oriented approaches in addressing problems rather than specific problems facing the general public. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Development, Prof Elisante Ole Gabriel issued the call here during the 12th symposium of the Hombolo-based Local Government Training Institute (LGTI). He said leaders don’t need to be remembered by their position but rather by their contribution towards addressing challenges that the people face in society. “If we speak of people’s development, we must also highlight the contribution of our leaders,” he said. Prof Gabriel was of the view that leaders must lead the people to be active players in social and economic activities in the community. “It is leaders who can facilitate a smooth transition of economic growth between individuals, communities and the nation,” he said. But he was cautious that the same leaders must strive to adopt a solution-based approach in addressing challenges the community faces. He suggested some working approaches, which include organizing practical public meetings and dialogue that engage all key players in developing workable solutions. “This is what people will remember you by. It’s not your education status, your position or titles,” he emphasized. LGTI Principal, Dr Mpamilwa Madale explained that the institute resolved to organize the symposium to remind both elected and appointed leaders of their responsibilities in providing services to the public. He said Tanzania recently conducted its general election, and therefore it is high time the newly elected and appointed public leaders go through a formal training that will help them discharge their duties accordingly. “Our team of academicians had also conducted various research that will help identify challenges facing the public. This is a good start, because the new leaders will be exposed to people’s expectations,” he said. Some areas of focus included health, water, infrastructures and education among others. The training institute vowed to offer a token of between 50,000 and 300,000/- to all researchers for helping unearth undocumented challenges facing the people.