WHEN a man and a woman come together for that thing called holy matrimony, they have to face the man of the cloth and swear that through thick or thin, they will stick together like conjoined twins. The man is forced to pledge allegiance to the wife, and the wife is made to do the same thing, and in our African culture, this means that even if a woman is married to the evil brother of Mike Tyson, then she is supposed to act as if nothing is happening and ignore the well-aimed jabs. And for a man, even if he married a terrorist in the form of a woman, a woman who makes it a habit to practice perfecting her upper cut blows on his chin, then the poor soul is supposed to stay calm and remember the wedding vows in case some funny ideas start playing in his mind. When I met Mama Boyi, the mother of my clan, she lifted the holy book and swore before the invited members of her clan (they were the majority), including those who gate crashed, and swore that she will be obedient and docile to yours truly, the prefect of her heart, as she said. But over the years, something happened to her memory, and she completely forgot the vows she uttered with shaky lips, and instead started acting as if she was waiting for recruitment from JWTZ to be shipped to Darfur, because the warrior side of her Nyakyusa blood is becoming more evident by the day. I have told you how my bald head has always been the unwilling recipient of the greasy frying pan that has become her favorite weapon, and I will continue telling you that she can wield it with such expertise that can put a veteran tennis player to shame. That is why my domestic thug, Papa Dog Killa, or Mtoto wa Ngwasuma has vowed never to marry, and he has his valid reasons. “Mshua kaza buti, maza noma, kama mimi ningeua mtu walai, siku moja mpe nakos tu budaa!” I did not understand what he said, but at least I got a rough idea. But it is as if the wife got a whiff of the idea drifted to me from the junior thug, because that night as I came home from Zakayo’s pub, she was waiting for me at the door step, with her frying pan firmly stuck in her massive armpit. One look at her told me that I was in for a rough night, but this time round I was determined to let the blood of Chief Mirambo take charge of the situation. I started chanting old Ruga ruga war songs as I parked my excuse of a car (I call it metal on wheels) in the makeshift garage, and before I could apply the age old tactics which made enemies scatter in fear of the dreaded ruga ruga, I felt my world spinning in a crazy circle. Mama Boyi, with such accuracy that could make a World War Two veteran sniper turn green with envy, managed to land the greasy frying pan squarely on my bald head, and before I could scream ‘Limatunda!’, she was on top of me. All these years I have harbored the notion that I would have turned an instant millionaire if I had yielded to the advice from Jatello, that fellow from the lake side who had told me on numerous occasions that I should enroll my wife as a professional wrestler with the World Wrestling Entertainment. “Omera, it is obvious that your wife makes the blood of brave men turn into mere water, I think you are sitting on a fortune, that woman of yours should come face to face with real men in the land of my cousin Obama!” he told me one day. That advice was slowly playing in my mind as I felt myself being dragged by the cuff of my trouser, and in the background I could hear Nyakiusa circumcision songs being hummed by the woman who years ago stood in front of a man of God and swore that she will never abandon me. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pain that I have to inform you that on that fateful day, I slept like a refugee in the makeshift garage, and with all the petrol fumes from the collection of metal (that happens to be my car), I woke up the next morning feeling high. The first thing I did was to enter the car and drive off to my mother’s house. But not before the metal box refused to start, which is normal routine in the morning, and I had to push it for half a kilometer before it coughed into life. I arrived at my mother’s place very early, and when she saw me, she started wailing in the traditional Nyamwezi fashion before my dad came out and asked if I managed to identify the truck that hit me. To make a long story short, my mother told me that there was no way I was going back to that house I call home, and swore on her ancestor’s graves that her son will not be treated like a common criminal while she still had enough breath in her. Two weeks from the day I arrived at my parent’s house, a delegation of Nyakiusa elders and women, including mama Boyi herself, arrived at my mother’s compound, bearing different gifts to appease the wrath of my parents. “We have come to claim our son back,” one of the elders announced, and my mother jumped from her stool as if a thorn had been planted underneath her, and chanting Chief Mirambo’s famous war songs, she was about to make a meal out of the unfortunate elder, had it not been for the timely intervention of my father. “Haiwezekani, my son can never be treated like a punching bag of a mad woman, kwani who told you that he was chased from our home? If you wanted a sparring partner, you should have gone to akina Matumla’s family, they are boxers, shenzi type!!” she screamed while jumping up and down in a terrifying manner. The group of elders realized that they were dealing with a tough woman, because all the Nyakiusa warrior blood in them froze and turned into ice cold Pepsi, as my mother danced around the compound like a war hardened, veteran Ruga ruga warrior. The mother of my clan, who sat there and acted as if she can never hurt a fly, begged me to go back home, and promised that the frying pan was lying in two pieces in the garbage can as she was speaking. “Watoto wanakumiss my dear husband, especially the domestic thug, who needs the presence of a man to shape him up, and you know that you are his inspiration!” she pleaded with me. To be honest kabisa, I could have swallowed all the lies she was giving me, except the lie that the junior kibaka was missing me…… I went back home anyway.  