KAGERA residents have hailed President John Magufuli for focusing on people-centred projects in both first and second terms in office. President Magufuli on Friday inaugurated the 12th Parliament, outlining his key priorities in the next five years, with some ambitious socioeconomic growth targets. His hands-on leadership style to implement and accomplish promised tasks promptly has earned him praise in the country and in Africa at large. Mr Jasson Kobukale (64) from Nshamba Ward in Muleba District told the ‘Sunday News’ during a telephone interview that he was impressed with Dr Magufuli's speech he delivered in Parliament on Friday, especially on promoting investment projects. "The President is determined to promote investment projects and has placed the ministry responsible for investment direct under his office. This will surely attract more investors in the country," he said. Ms Ashura Hassan (32) from Ngara District's Kibimba Village, on the other hand, praised Dr Magufuli's decision to promote traditional medicines. "This is a timely decision. Many nations, including developed countries, have all the way promoted traditional medicines. This will also increase employment opportunities," she noted. The Traditional and Alternative Medicine Act No 23 of 2002 regulates traditional and alternative medicine practices and establishes the Traditional and Alternative Health Practice Council. The functions of the council include, monitoring, regulating, promoting and supporting the development of traditional medicines and protect medicinal plants and other natural resources of medicinal value, such as animals, minerals and aquatic organisms. Traditional medicines that form the basis of healthcare throughout the world since the earliest days of humankind are still widely used and have considerable importance in international trade. The recognition of their clinical, pharmaceutical and economic value is still growing although this varies from country to country. Better health of a population is central to the development of a nation since a healthy population lives longer and is more productive and contributes more to national economy.