IAIN Bonomy, judge of the Trial Chamber of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (Mechanism) has ordered medical examination to be carried on Felicien Kabuga, who is accused of orchestrating the 1994 Rwanda Genocide. Kabuga has temporarily been transferred to The Hague branch of the Mechanism from France, where he was arrested in May this year. He was to be taken to Arusha branch of the Mechanism, but he appealed to go to The Netherlands due to health reasons. In his order that was delivered at Arusha recently, Judge Bonomy said he took the decision after considering that, pursuant to Rule 84 (A) of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence, the Trial Chamber may proprio motu or at the request of a party order a medical, psychiatric, or psychological examination of the accused. As a Pre-Trial Judge in the case, Bonomy said that in view of the parties' and the Registra (Abobacarr Tambadou)'s prior submissions supporting Kabuga's transfer to the Hague branch instead of Arusha due to medical concerns, it is appropriate to order a medical examination and/or assessment of Kabuga. The examination will be done by the Mechanism's medical officer and other appropriate medically qualified personnel deemed necessary and a report submitted in order to facilitate the initial appearance of the accused. The Court also said that the medical officer will have to advise on the further steps necessary to address Kabuga's fitness at the time and in the foreseeable future to undertake the journey to Arusha and to be held in detention there. "Considering that the report should include ...a summary of Kabuga's current medical condition on the basis of the examination and other available medical information ... any special measures that may be required for him to attend his initial appearance as soon as practicable," said Judge Bonomy. Kabuga was arrested on 16 May 2020 in France and his transfer into the custody of the Mechanism was authorized by the French judiciary on 30th September 2020. On 21st October 2020, the judge determined that exceptional circumstances and the interests of justice justified amending Kabuga's arrest warrant and the accompanying order for transfer directed that he should be transferred to the Arusha branch. He also ordered that he be transferred temporarily to the United Nations Detention Unit (UNDU) at the Hague branch of the Mechanism for a detailed medical assessment. On 26th October 2020, the French authorities transferred Kabuga to the custody, where he is presently detained. Following the period of quarantine at the UNDU and an indication of any aspects of Kabuga's medical condition on which the opinion of an independent medical expert should be sought, his preliminary medical assessment was reached. Judge Bonomy instructed the registrar, as soon as practicable but no later than seven days from the day of the order to submit the medical report in accordance with the order, and provide any other relevant information relevant to the implementation of the order. Thousands of Rwandans were killed in 1994 Genocide and the man behind that was said to be Kabuga.