INSPECTOR General of Police Simon Sirro has challenged politicians who have fled the country on claims of insecurity to come back home, assuring them of safety. “Those who have fled the country are warmly welcome home, and if they feel insecure, I guarantee them protection,” he said. He, however, said the politicians listed the allegations of insecurity to the media but never reported any of the security-related threats to any police station in the country. “I’m appealing to them to return home so that we can all together build our nation,” he said. The police chief said the noble duty of policemen is to protect people and their property and whoever feels insecure from anybody or group of people should report the matter to law enforcers who can take immediate action to defend his or her liberty as a citizen. Mr Sirro said he personally wrote a letter to the opposition Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) party asking for cooperation from its 2020 presidential aspirant Tundu Lissu who complained of threats to his security. “I requested Mr Lissu to report to a police station so that he could give us information on his claims. I even asked him to come with the Germany Ambassador so that he could feel comfortable, but he never showed up. How do you work on something you do not know?” the police boss queried. He said “it is obvious that some politicians are having a hidden agenda for political and personal reasons in order to tarnish the country’s image in the eyes of the international community. Mr Sirro said that to ensure all presidential candidates were equal police officers were deployed to man their election campaigns, adding that Mr Lissu was among politicians who praised the work of the law enforcers, but suddenly stopped trusting them after losing the election. “Mr Lissu always talked positively on police responsibilities during the campaign period. Mr Godbless Lema was also free talking whatever he wanted, but the police protected them throughout the campaigns. It is unfortunate today Mr Lema says his life is in danger. I think there is a hidden agenda on this matter,” he said. “It is obvious, those leaders who were planning what they termed ‘peaceful demonstration’ had another agenda in their minds, you cannot plan peaceful demonstrations while committing offences,” he noted. Mr Sirro was briefing journalists on the assessment of the October 28 general election, saying the democratic process went on well and that there were some challenges, which were also addressed accordingly. He commended the wananchi -- especially youth and police officers -- for avoiding from falling into a trap of violence. “Today we have a number of youth in custody and those who mobilised them to engage in illegal acts have already left the country,” he explained. “I would like to thank all religious leaders, youth, some politicians, the Zanzibar Electoral Commission and the National Electoral Commission as well as all the wananchi for observing peace during election period,” he said.