Former Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has commended a new entrepreneurship programme designed to help local entrepreneurs to succeed in expanding and growing their businesses to new heights. Mr Pinda made the remarks at the launch of the new KLI-Regent Business Development Centre in Tanzania that will run 14 weeks’ business-leadership short courses and entrepreneurship programme in Dar es Salaam. The 14-week programme will be run by the Kingdom Leadership Network Tanzania (KLNT) in partnership with Regent University. Mr Pinda, who is also the patron of KLNT, acknowledged the profound and patriotic contribution of the new Business Development Centre in Tanzania. “Regent University will impart to students knowledge and skills to practise integrity, compassion and purpose, while KLNT has been successful in running various programmes each designed to promote integrity, value-based practical leadership, business economic growth and investment in the country since 2013,” he said. He added that the new partnership was invigorating and inspiring for the better future of our beloved country. Chief Executive Officer and Founder of KLNT Isaac Mpatwa said the Business Development Centre in Tanzania presented a uniquely designed entrepreneurship programme geared towards helping entrepreneurs’ success in starting or growing their businesses. “The programme guides students' entrepreneurial vision to enable them to steer their organisation with confidence, innovation and expertise,” he said. The programme includes two and three-day executive short courses centring on performance management for leaders, customer care skills and customer care strategies for leaders, business model audit and key success factors diagnostics. The programme further provides a unique opportunity for impacting the leadership and economic transformation on Tanzania for present and future generations whilst having an opportunity to influence, inspire and impact others at the same time to learn and grow from experience. Kingdom Leadership Institute (KLI) is an interdisciplinary think tank and training institution established to develop and support value-based ethical leadership in Tanzania and across Africa. KLI exists to prepare leaders to excel holistically through moral guidance, mentoring, coaching and effective leadership training.