THE High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division on Wednesday found Tanga-based prominent businessman Yanga OmaryYanga, his wife and a house girl with a case to answer on charge of trafficking 1052.63 grams of Heroin Hydrochloride, which are narcotic drugs. Judge Imakulata Banzi, who is conducting the economic trial before the High Court, Tanga Zone, ruled that the prosecution, through its seven witnesses and eight exhibits tendered established a prima facie case, sufficiently requiring the trio to give their defence testimony against the charge. She took into consideration the prosecution’s evidence, which suggests that all three accused persons were found with the narcotic drugs when the police conducted a search at the residence of Yanga, nicknamed as “Rais waTanga” meaning, “President of Tanga.” During the trial, the prosecution was represented by Principal State Attorney Faraja Nchimbi, Senior State Attorney Pius Hilla, State Attorneys Constantine Kakula, Salimu Msemo, Donata Kazungu and Mseley Mfinanga, a Senior Legal Officer from the Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA). The prosecution produced the evidence in attempt to prove that the three accused persons committed the offence on October 1, 2018 at Bombo area in Tanga City. Following the court’s ruling, the three accused persons started giving their defence evidence. All of them indicated that they would give their evidence under oath and would neither call independent witnesses nor tender any exhibits to support their oral defence testimonies. Prima facie case is the establishment of a legally required rebuttable presumption. A prima facie case is a cause of action or defence that is sufficiently established by a party’s evidence to justify a verdict in his or her favor, provided such evidence is not rebutted by the other party. At the close of the prosecution’s case during a criminal trial, the accused may submit to the court that there is no case for him or her to answer. If the court agrees, then the matter is dismissed and the accused is acquitted without having to present any evidence in his or her defence. If the court does not accept the submission, the case continues and the defence must present its case. Apart from Yanga, other accused persons are his wife Rahma Juma and their house girl Halima Mohamed. They are defended by seasoned defence counsel Majura Magafu and Advocates Nehemia Nkoko, Mohamed Kajembe, Kahoza Nicholaus and Denis Tumaini. Facts show that on October 1, 2018 officers of the Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA), from Dar es Salaam were conducting an operation in Tanga searching for dealers of narcotic drugs. While having information that Yanga was trafficking in narcotic drugs, the DCEA officers at midnight hours went at his house at Bombo area within the District, City and Region of Tanga for search. Upon reaching at the house in question with the accompany of street chairperson, the officers met Yanga’s security guard, who lead them to the house and when they knocked the door it was opened by the businessman, who was with his wife and the house girl. Then, the DCEA officers introduced themselves to Yanga and informed them their reasons of being there, which is to conduct search in the house as the businessman was suspected of dealing in narcotic drugs. The DCEA officers were allowed by Yanga to enter and conduct the search. During the exercise the officers seized several items, notably one black pair of socks with a nylon plastic bag in, a black plastic bag, a pink cloth bag with a nylon bag in it and black plastic bag with four different nylon plastic bags. All of these items, according to the prosecution, contained powdery substance suspected to be narcotic drugs. The officers also conducted a search outside the house in Yanga’s motor vehicle of Toyota Land Cruiser’s make 5,340,000/- was found therein and the registration card of the vehicle. Having concluded the exercise, a seizure certificate was prepared and signed by Yanga and Halima, together with the witnesses of the search. Yanga was arrested and taken to Chumbageni Police Station for further interrogation.