THE Desk and Chair Foundation has donated 30 wheelchairs to Bugando Referral Hospital and Sekou Toure Regional Referral Hospital worth 20m/-. Speaking on different occasions on Thursday after handing over the wheelchairs, the representative of the Desk and Chair Foundation in Tanzania, Mr Sibtain Meghjee, said the donation of the wheelchairs came from good Samaritans. He said the Samaritans, who are Muslims of the Shia Ithina-Asheria Imamia, donated the wheelchairs to the two referral hospitals to help patients. “We have donated these wheelchairs to help the needy at Bugando Referral Hospital and Seko-Toure Regional Referral Hospital,” he explained. He said the wheelchairs donation was the gift to the Lake Zone residents as a part of the commemoration of Prophet Mohammad’s birthday celebrated last month around the world. He praised the management and staff of the two referral hospitals for the great work they were doing caring for patients referred to the two institutions. Expressing gratitude on behalf of the management of Bugando Referral Hospital, Director of Finance and Planning, Fr Engelbert Nyandwi, said the support would bring relief to patients at the hospital. He said Bugando Referral Hospital receives 1,200-1,500 patients per day, a situation that is in dire need of the wheelchairs for patients. “Our demand for wheelchairs for the whole hospital is more than 200 wheelchairs and there are times when the wheelchairs we have are insufficient,” he added, urging other stakeholders to take a leaf from the Foundation and continue supporting the hospital which still needed wheelchairs. For her part, the referral hospital in charge, Dr Bahati Msaki, thanked the Foundation for the support of wheelchairs and asked other institutions to emulate the example shown by the Desk and Chair Foundation. “On behalf of the leadership we thank the Desk and Chair, they have been a great support to us, they constructed for us a building for outpatients and parents’ wards and today they have given us these wheelchairs. We are very proud of their support,” she said.