LAST Saturday was the international community ‘World Diabetes Day (WDD)’ to raise awareness of this chronic disease which kills at least one million people annually, globally, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) data. As it was in the past years (at least the past five years), Non-Governmental Organisation (NGOs), community groups, and government institutions organised different functions such as public voluntary diabetes testing, and workshops on the disease, to observe the day. Zanzibar Island was not left behind in marking the WDD, as it organised similar functions, but also opted to have series of meetings that engaged journalists to sensitise them so that they help educate the public about health and social problems caused by diabetes and other Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs). Talking to the media practitioners including editors and reporters, at different occasions last week, health experts expressed concern over increasing cases of diabetes and other Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) attributed to mainly ignorance or little knowledge about risk factors. Zanzibar has not updated its data on the common NCDs [cardiovascular, diabetes, and high blood pressure] since 2011 when survey indicated that the problems were on rise like in many areas of the world prompting the government to start awareness campaign. “Fresh survey is underway in 2021 to have new data on the status NCDs in Zanzibar because the one we have is relatively outdated data. But basing on the diabetes and cancer patients register at Mnazi Mmoja Referral Hospital alone, the number of people contracting the diseases has been high,” said Ms Zuhura Saleh Amour from NCDs Department of the Health Ministry. She said that collective actions were required now to control the spread of the disease, and that through serious commitment of the media the goal can be achieved in the short time. Ms Rabia Ali Makame also from the NCDs department- Ministry of Health said NCDs were now among the top ten diseases affecting Zanzibaris and that it was high time concerted efforts are taken to save people, particularly by promoting regular health check and body exercises. The facilitators asked journalists to inform the public that although all people can be affected any of the NCDs, most at risk are adults between age of 25 and 70, and obese people. Other factors are family history for the disease, mostly men, use of tobacco, alcohol, consuming unhealthy foods, and violation of road traffic regulations. “It is sad that young people from the age of nine smoke cigarettes and also drink alcohol putting them at the risk of NCDs later when they become older,” she said. The health experts want the nationwide awareness campaign to include schools, where students will be educated about NCDs and encouraged to avoid risk factors including stress, smoking, sexual intercourse before required age, and idleness. The Director General (DG) - Mnazi Mmoja Referral Hospital Dr Ali Salum Ali says it is estimated that about three hundred new diabetes patients of the age between 25 and 64 are recorded annually in the country. Briefing journalists about the diabetes situation in Zanzibar, Dr Ali said the survey made almost a decade ago indicated 3.7 per cent of the Isles population live with diabetes, and the current (December 2019) global statistics shows that 400 million people are patients, the number higherthan people living with HIV+. He said that on November 9-13, this year 278 nurses tested diabetes and all were negative but 63.4 per cent of them were overweight and the rest had blood pressure. Dr Faiza Kassim Suleiman- specialist on diabetes said it is expensive to treat diabetes (one requires at least 400,000/- monthly) and that it important for everyone to work hard to prevent it. “Most Zanzibaris, as high as 98 per cent of the population, are not consuming vegetables and fruits, instead go for junk foods. It is sad that with the past two decades the number of children with diabetes has increased from only 10 to 150,” Dr Suleiman lamented. Mr Ali Zubeir Juma- secretary- ‘Zanzibar Diabetes association,’ said that his association calls for collaboration with ministry of Health with engagement of media to increase public awareness. Veteran journalist Mr Ali Sultan presented a topic ‘reporting NCDs’, urging journalists in the Islands to prioritise educating the public about the diseases and how to minimize risks before more people contract it. He said that there are ‘Guidelines on reporting NCDs’ which journalists should read and follow along with ethical issues (fairness, impartiality, accuracy, and humanity) as he promised that the ministry of health and other sources of information will cooperate with journalists. “There are many risk factors we can talk about and discourage our readers, viewers, and listeners to shun them. Using our ‘pen’ let us discourage fast or junk foods, use of newspapers for wrapping snacks because the papers contain ink (chemical substance) used to print, and also discourage re-use of plastic empties,” Sultan said. He said many people including journalists, health practitioners, sportsmen, wealthy persons, politicians, leaders, and even young people have not been spared from NCDs and that it is important that ‘war’ against the diseases was given much attention.