“FRANCE is putting financial means to address gender equality that is why there is a special fund for Feminists Civil Society Organisations for the next five years of 120 million euros for gender oriented projects all around the world,” that was said recently by French Ambassador to Tanzania, Frédéric Clavier, while addressing members of the press in Dar es Salaam towards the European Union Ambassadors to Tanzania launching this year’s Global Campaign of 16 Days of Activism against Gender Based Violence (GBV). He further said that in Tanzania, the embassy will fund two projects to empower women in agroecology (noting that women produce 50 per cent of food and form two-thirds of global labour, but only earn 10 per cent of the incomes) and in cultural areas will strengthen their capacities with 1.5 million euros for the next two years. “For France, fighting GBV is a priority and need to be addressed in partnership with governments, several institutions, civil society organisations, UN organisations…16 days of activism is a crucial campaign that puts light on GBV and work together to tackle it and promote behavioural change for the society to discard it. “France has a long history of fighting for gender equality which was by our elected president Emmanuel Macron, who decided to make gender equality a priority. A decade ago, UN Women was created after a strong advocacy from France, and the French embassy and the UN Women will continue to work together and to implement new projects in these coming days with the Generation Equality Forum, held by President Macron in Paris in June, 2021, and co-chaired by Mexico. “This will be the celebration of 25 years since the Beijing Platform for Action set out to remove the systematic barriers, which have been holding back women from equal participation in all areas of life, whether in public or private sectors. “France fought for the adoption and implementation of the Security Council resolutions on women, peace and security: 2020 marks the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the resolution-1325. This is the first resolution that recognised women’s leadership to achieve international peace and security and their contributions to conflict prevention, peacekeeping, conflict resolution and peace building. “The implementation of women, peace and security priorities is a key political commitment in the women’s full, equal and meaningful participation in peace processes and political solutions is essential for effective peacekeeping and sustainable peace outcomes. “France promotes also the Council of Europe Convention on Combating violence against women and domestic violence within the Istanbul Convention. “The French Presidency of the G7 in 2019 has put an emphasis on gender equality which led to the adoption of the Biarritz Partnership for Gender Equality. This led to the G7 Declaration on Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment on top of national commitments,where the G7 countries committed to the creation of a “global collation to the full empowerment of women and girls across the world.” “Despite some progress, real change has been slow for the majority of women and girls in the world. Today, not a single country can claim to have achieved gender equality. Multiple obstacles remain unchanged in law and in culture. “As a result, women remain undervalued, they continue to work more, earn less, have fewer choices, and experience multiple forms of violence at home and in public spaces,” added the envoy. On her part, Germany Ambassador to Tanzania Regine Hess noted that on the 16 Days of Activism slated for November 25 to December 10th this year, the federal Republic of Germany will be at the forefront in supporting gender matters as it has been doing in the past years, citing funding a number of projects in Tanzania, which have a strong gender focus. She said: “We funded the construction of a sanitation and washroom facility for 500 girls at a Primary School in Iringa in 20178, and supported an advocacy seminar and awareness campaign for 3, 500 adolescents on early pregnancies, sexual transmitted diseases and genderbased violence in Arumeru, Arusha last year. “We funded the local based manufacturing and distribution of reusable BINTI menstrual hygiene kits for more than 3000 girls in Coast Region this year. “And we lastly funded the production of 5 short films that show how young girls can defend themselves from sexual harassment and gender based violence this year,” she said. Attending the press conference also, the Deputy Head of Mission Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Ms Lianne Houben narrated how protecting the women and girls against sexual violence has been a priority in the Dutch international agenda policy. “Everybody who knows a little bit about the Netherlands knows that orange is a colour that lies close to our heart. It is the surname of our Royal family and whenever we celebrate the King’s birthdays or watch pour national soccer team play, we all dress up in orange, but today, the orange colour is asking for the attention for the continuous struggle to prevent and eliminate all forms of valiance against all women and girls, she said. She added: “Violence can take the shape of for example, domestic violence, sexual violence, marital rape, female genital mutilation and child marriages and also along as there is nor gender equality, there will be no room for violence. “Here in Tanzania, the embassy of the Netherlands has been supporting various projects and initiatives, which raise awareness about GBV. For instance, we have been supporting Children Dignity Forum in preventing FGM, early child marriages and teen pregnancies in Mpwapwa and Kitunda Ward in Dar es Salaam among others. “On the December 8th this year, we shall screen a movie at the Drum about a Nigerian theater director who dares to bring her play on the issue of sexual violence to the slum of Makoko, located in the outskirts of Lagos,” she said.