WITH only four days to go before the inaugural Arusha Night Run, organisers have affirmed that 500 people from across the nation will be running in the event scheduled for next Friday. Among of them is the Regional Police Traffic Commander (RTO), Solomon Mwangamilo who is also going to run alongside the local District Commissioners. Arusha City Sports Officer, Benson Maneno said with improved road infrastructure, it has been possible to run during the night because of the installed street lights. “We are going to encourage international organisations, institutions and other companies in Arusha to fully participate in order to boost nightlife in the urban precinct,” said Maneno. It was expected that at least 1000 participants would participate in the event because more people continue to enroll for the night racing feat, which will cover 15 kilometres in the scheduled 7.5 Km return trip according to one of the coordinators, Xavier Chuwa. This will be the first event of ‘in the running field’ to be held in the country at night. The 15 kilometres long night racing event will start at Cocoriko Annex, formerly Triple ‘A’ Club at Technical College Junction, with runners heading towards Ngaramtoni area but not exactly reaching there, simply moving past Sakina, Azimio and Kwa-Idd areas before turning back at a spot measured 7.5 kilometres and back. The ‘Arusha Night Run’ is introduced and organised by two sports promotion oriented individuals, Xavier Chuwa and Kylie Gyubi and the feat is expected to be staged here on Friday, the 4th of December 2020. The race will be preceded by other activities including blood donation in an aid of expectant mothers, HIV-Aids testing, Youth Advisory and mental health services. The main race carrying the theme; ‘Running is the Best Therapy’ will be flagged off from Triple A at about 8.00 in the night. Special mention is the availability of ‘Camel Milk’ at the starting venue to be introduced during the preceding health classes. Running in the night, as far as the organisers are concerned, should be a sporting event with a difference, because the night provides a conducive atmosphere allowing even busy people to run. Kylie Gyubi, the organiser said night racing usually takes place in developed countries, mostly during New Year eve as part of the festive vigils, but for Arusha the season is right because December is a holiday month and all families are back home. She said this is the first time the race is taking place in Arusha, Tanzania and the whole of East Africa with the event planned to be an annual thing to be featured every December. Runners are expected to come from all over the country; so far invited participants will be hailing from Mwanza, Dodoma, Morogoro, Kilimanjaro, Dar-es-salaam and the host region of Arusha. Maiden Arusha Night Race is being supported by among other firms; Bonite Bottlers of Moshi, Dynamic Digital; Lighthouse, Arusha City Council, Bonds Security, Just Fits, and PF Furnitures.