RURAL Energy Agency (REA) has been instructed to come up with a workable financial management and control system so that there can be a clear and open path in which funds issued by the government and development partners for rural electrification projects can be easily monitored. This was said on Friday by Arusha Regional Commissioner (RC) Idd Kimanta when officiating at a bi-annual meeting between REA and energy development partners under the theme “Working with development partners to promote and facilitate access to modern energy services in rural areas of Mainland Tanzania”. “You must spend well and in the agreed manner the funds issued by the government and the development partners so that rural electrification projects are completed on time and benefit the desired community for socioeconomic development,” he insisted. Mr Kimanta said so far REA’s smooth and timely implementation of the rural electrification projects had increased development partners’ trust, thus timely disbursement of financial resources to the Rural Electrification Fund (REF) for more projects. He commended development partners for continued support of government efforts in rural electrification projects which had facilitated access to energy for the majority of villages and those in rural areas and improve social services. “By your support in the energy sector with special focus on rural electrification projects you have supported the government’s initiative and improved the welfare of the community in health, education, access to clean and safe water, communications, industries and trade,” said the RC. He said the Energy Development Partners Group support had also make it easy for the community in rural areas to easily access the market as the police post had increased efficiency as they were assured of reliable energy. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy Zena Said insisted that the proper utilisation of funds for rural electrification projects so that the government planned to ensure that 2021 all villages were electrified and by 2025 all suburbs enjoyed access to electricity come true. Mr Said was of the opinion that cooperation and good working relations between the government and development partners had fast track a project to distribute and implement rural energy projects. She used the platform to remind REA staff of their noble obligation to work hard while guided by teamwork, speedy and efficiency to meet the goals set by the government as far as access to electricity was not a privilege so that the public could engage in productive activities, including setting up small and medium industries for increased revenue and poverty reduction. For his part, chairman of Rural Energy Board (REB) Julius Kalolo said the government in collaboration with energy development partners made it possible for the electrification of 9,884 villages (80.5 per cent) of all Mainland Tanzania villages. He added that they were in final stages to get contractors who would be commissioned for the implementation of rural electrification projects in the remaining 2,300 villages, whose implementation would start early 2021.