STUDENTS staying in ghetto hostels form majority of teenagers falling in teenage pregnancies in the community, because they lack parental care and upright upbringing, experts said. Clarifying on that matter, the Mpwapwa District Council Social Welfare Officer, Mr Fadhili Mollel said the life of girl students, who are living in such ghetto hostels have many challenges, which make them vulnerable and easy prey for temptations, adding: “They (students) live without guidance and sometimes don't have enough basic needs to fulfill their school and home daily demands.” The officer made the remarks in a recent interview with journalists facilitated by Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA), Children Dignity Forum (CDF) and Equality Now. He said TAWLA always advises parents to fulfill their responsibilities on time, in order to avoid the temptations of girl students being lured to early sex and pregnancies, which make them drop out of school. Mr Mollel said that they have been cooperating with various stakeholders including CDF in providing training in schools to advise young girls to report also any sexual violence acts they face. “Long distance to school and lack of basic needs to girl students puts them in danger… as they have to commute late in the evening or even at night, giving a chance to dishonest men to take advantage of their needs,” he said. Commenting, Police Gender and Children's Desk Coordinator in Mpwapwa District, Mr Shafii Kaurasa said most of the gender-based violence cases are still settled at home and hence the perpetrators always escape the hands of justice. On the same accasion, Ihala Secondary School Teacher, Ms Yukunda Joackim noted that teenage pregnancies have been caused by students staying in ghetto hostel without their parents or guardians’ care. However, she advised the parents to monitor and follow their students’ performance every time, adding that parents also have been tasked to report any GBV case(s) facing such girls. CDF Community Worker in Mpwapwa District, Ms Asha Rahman commented that, they have been working with school and non-school students in five wards in Mpwapwa districts by training and building their capacity on the effects of teenage pregnancies and how to avoid it. She explained that for the non-school girls, they have set up clubs and groups which involve survivors of teenage pregnancies in each ward, where they further provide them with education on sexual health reproductive so that they become role models in the community. CDF is a non-profit organization that works to promote and reinforce the rights of vulnerable children, particularly girls, by placing children's legal and human rights on the public agenda. CDF endeavours to promote children's rights for most vulnerable children through creation of working forums that empower children, families and communities to achieve this common agenda.