A PRICE surge in cement for Kilimanjaro and Arusha regions has not been caused by a drop in production at Tanga Cement which supplies the commodity to the Northern Zone. Tanga Cement Chairman of the Board of Directors Lawrence Masha said in Dar es Salaam at the weekend that production was at its highest level, but they were also supplying cement to huge infrastructure projects implemented by the government. “We have not increased cement price. But this is time the government is implementing major infrastructure projects. A big portion of our cement goes to government projects,” he told reporters after the company’s annual general meeting held virtually. Tanga Cement, one of the largest cement makers in Tanzania supplies cement to Tanga, Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Manyara regions. “The company also supplies cement for the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) at its second phase from Morogoro to Dodoma and Mbezi Regional Bus Stand in Dar es Salaam which is nearing completion,” the chairman said. It also supplies cement for construction projects in the capital city of Dodoma capital, including the Chamwino State House and the construction of Busisi Bridge. Reports from Moshi say a 50km-bag of cement was selling at 15,000/- instead of between 11,000/- and 13,000/-. “We are at full production capacity, but we supply to many government infrastructure projects. We support the government and our people are working day and night to produce cement,” he said. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa recently directed all regional commissioners to inspect all cement factories in the country and prosecute owners found hoarding the commodity. He told the RCs during a videoconference that inspection should also involve cement agents across the country. Speaking after he was sworn in by President John Magufuli at Chamwino State House in Dodoma, Mr Majaliwa said “My first assignment as Prime Minister is to investigate causes that have led to the hiking of cement prices.” He said reports submitted to him from the regional commissioners had indicated that there was a shortage of cement, which led to price surge.