ISSA Haule, a commercial motorcyclist at Kinyamwezi Bus Stop, died in a ghastly road crash along Gongolamboto-Chanika Road in July this year. Still in his early 20s, charming and popular among his peers, Haule saw his dreams cut short when a reckless bus driver ran over his motorcycle as he was crossing to a filling station. He had two passengers, a boy and his girlfriend, from Pugu Kajiungeni to Kinyamwezi. Just a few kilometres from their destination, he decided that he should refuel as his motorcycle was running short of gas. With the station on the other side of the road, he needed to turn to his right and a small vehicle coming from the opposite direction stopped so that he could proceed to the gas stop. He did. But that proved to be fatal. A rushing commuter bus driver swerved and pulled out into the unlucky motorcyclist’s direction and ran over the trio and their motorcycle. While his passengers were thrown off of the motorcycle, Issa was dragged under the bus, an Eicher model. He was pinned under it and was removed moments after the crash, unresponsive and obviously messed up. It was around 19:00hrs when the crash occurred and the victims were taken to Pugu Hospital, with Issa, particularly, in bad shape. “He was fighting for his life. After a few hours the doctor decided to refer him to Amana Hospital,” says Deo Simon, a leader of the riders’ association at Kinyamwezi. While still trying to find a car to transport their mate to Amana Hospital, Issa lost his battle, just shortly past midnight. His death came almost six-hours after the crash. “He died in my hands, with plenty of blood coming out through the nose and mouth,” recalls Simon, who says the two victims made full recovery. His body would eventually be transported to Songea, his mother’s native land, for burial ceremony. A day later, Issa’s friend, Sadick who used to operate his motorcycle at Chanika died in another horrific road accident at Kinyamwezi. The victim was trying to avoid a pothole where the road bends, when he collided with a speeding vehicle. He was also carrying two passengers, who escaped death, but sustained serious injuries. According to Kinyamwezi motorcyclists, the boy had in the morning visited Issa’s place to offer condolences and contribute some money for his friend’s burial ceremony. “They were very close, unfortunately death has tragically cut their lives short, while they’re still very young. We pray for their souls...may they rest in eternal peace,” says one of his peers. A few days later another deadly crash occurred. Three teenagers perished on the spot when an overloaded motorcycle, with five people, crashed with a commuter bus, Eicher, on the same GongolambotoChanika Road. The trio died on the spot, according to eyewitnesses. The remaining two were seriously injured. It was a head-on collision between a motorcycle and a passenger vehicle, plying between Machinga Complex and Chanika. “Eichers are a big problem because their drivers are always in a rush. They drive at very high speed and cause fatal crashes almost every other day. They have little or no regard at all for vulnerable road users,” says Simon. The country’s roads have turned into a death trap for motorcyclists, who are increasingly becoming dominant transport service providers in urban and rural settings. Unfortunately, this mushrooming of commercial motorcycle transport has increased the rate of road crashes, deaths and injuries. According to official statistics from the Police Force, the Traffic Department, 124 motorcyclists were killed in road crashes between January and June this year, down from 157 fatalities recorded in the corresponding period last year, a 21-per cent reduction. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), road crashes are the leading cause of deaths for young people aged 15-24 years. “Motorcyclists and their passengers are more vulnerable on the road and are more likely to be injured or killed than car occupants,” says SP Sokoni. These crashes significantly affect individual and national economy as they cost billions of shillings per year in direct costs such as emergency services, medical costs, including rehabilitation, property damage, loss of market productivity, including lost wages, loss in household productivity. Because serious head injury is common among fatally injured motorcyclists, experts stress the use of a helmet since it can significantly protect them from life-threatening head injuries. “As a way of avoiding head injuries and deaths resulting from motorcycle crashes, the wearing of a helmet is important,” says Superintendent of Police Deus Sokoni, Head of the Traffic Police Legal Department. According to WHO Global Status Report 2018, helmet use can help avoid fatal injuries by 42 per cent and reduce head or brain injury by 69 per cent. Unfortunately, evidence shows that many motorcyclists and their passengers ignore the use of these safety devices even when driving on highways. A survey conducted by this newspaper on the Kinyamwezi-Gongolamboto stretch showed that out of 60 commercial motorcycles, only 22 had a driver or passenger wearing a helmet. Despite a flurry of deadly crashes involving motorcyclists and their passengers, still the use of helmets among motorcyclists remains very low across the country. The problem stems from the ineffective Road Traffic Act (RTA) and inadequate enforcement of traffic rules and regulations, which together provide room for negligence among motorcyclists when it comes to observing safety measures. The RTA requires a motorcyclist to wear a helmet. “No person shall drive a two-wheeled or threewheeled motorcycle unless he is wearing a helmet…” reads Section 39(11) of the RTA. The legislation basically does not compel a motorcycle passenger to wear a helmet, which is contrary to international best practices that require both driver and passenger to protect themselves while riding by properly wearing standard helmets. Recklessness among motorcyclists is also to blame for unabated crashes involving motorcyclists. Most of these young motorcyclists are unqualified, unlicensed and ignorant of road rules and regulations. Also evidence points to rampant use of intoxication among commercial motorcyclists, including excessive use of alcohol and drugs. This poses a huge challenge to law enforcers. Ms Mary Richard, a Programme Manager with the Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA), a member of the Coalition Advocating for Improved Road Safety Legal and Policy Environment in Tanzania, says there must be political will to address this menace and save lives. “The aftermath of road crashes is often injuries, disabilities and deaths. These pose huge health challenges,” says Ms Richard. The enactment of stronger legislation on helmet use, training and licensing of motorcyclists as well as effective enforcement of the traffic laws would significantly reduce deaths and injuries from crashes, she says. “The law should make it mandatory for motorcycle passengers to wear helmets regardless of whether it’s a commercial or non-commercial motorcycle,” insists Ms Richard. The expectations of road safety stakeholders in the country is that the government will fast-track the enactment of a new Road Traffic Act that will repel the current one, Road Traffic Act, 1973, which is unarguably outdated. The new legislation is set to address a number of road transport and safety issues, particularly, key risk factors linked directly to road crashes and their outcomes. It is the task that the new Home Affairs Minister, who will be appointed soon following the general election held last month, should implement steadfastly to ensure the country’s roads are safer.