EFFORTS to end power woes in Kigoma region are gathering steam after the African Development Bank (AfDB) on Friday approved a loan of 120 million US dollars (about 280bn/-) to Tanzania to finance implementation of Malagarasi Hydropower project. The 50 MW hydropower plant is expected to provide reliable renewable energy to households, schools, clinics and small and medium-sized enterprises in Kigoma region and its districts of Uvinza, Buhigwe, Kasulu, Kibondo and Kakonko. AfDB President, Mr Adesina Akinwumi noted that the approval of the project is a reflection of the bank’s commitment to assist the government of Tanzania to accelerate its transition to more inclusive and sustainable growth through the production of clean, reliable and affordable electricity. The hydropower plant is located in Igamba while the transmission line traverses Mazungwe and Kazuramimba in Kazuramimba Ward, Kalenge and Mlela in Kandaga Ward, all in Uvinza District, and Kidahwe in Kidahwe Ward in Kigoma District. The proposed Malagarasi Hydropower Plant Stage III was recommended after Malagarasi Stage II was dropped due to environmental concerns. Main objectives of the Malagarasi project is to supply sufficient and reliable electricity in Kigoma region, get rid of expensive diesel power generation with the remaining power being injected into the national grid. According to a statement issued by AfDB, the project components include a run-ofthe- river hydropower plant facility, a 54- km, 132 kV transmission line that will connect to Tanzania’s national grid, a distribution network and expansion operation that includes rural electrification. Others are last-mile connections, project management and contract administration support, compensation as well as resettlement of affected people. Malagarasi project’s overall cost is estimated at 144.14 million US dollars, where 120 million US dollars will be sourced from the Bank Group’s sovereign window, with an additional 20 million US dollars contributed by the Africa Growing Together Fund – a co-financing fund with resources from the government of the People’s Republic of China that is administered by the bank. The Government of Tanzania will provide the remaining 4.14 million US dollars. AfDB through Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) intends to construct a 44.8MW Malagarasi project and associated 132kV transmission line from Malagarasi Hydropower Plant to Kigoma 400/132/33kV substation at Kidahwe.