NATIONAL Kabaddi teams’ camp that was due to start in Dar es Salaam on November 5,2020 has been put to wait. Tanzania Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) early this week has named strong men and women’s teams consisting 32 members to prepare for the Africa Kabaddi Championship 2020. Organised by TKSA in collaboration with Africa Kabaddi Confederation (AKC), the annual continental level championship is scheduled to be staged in Dar es Salaam from December 11th to 13th this year. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam, the association’s chairman Abdallah Nyoni said that they initially planned to start residential camp today, on Thursday, but it has been changed until further notice. He said that they wait for Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) office to proceed with the plan, but he is currently engaged in other responsibilities. “We understand that country and leaders have been busy with the October 28 General Election, and tomorrow (today) it is the day when the President is swearing-in ready for his second term, we will wait for them and be ready to work as we gear up to prepare strong teams,” he said. He, howevet said the preparation for the continental level event is on a top gear and that all players will continue with preparation as the association needs a few weeks to put them together again. He said that men’s team has been boosted by two professional players including the captain Joseph Lusinde and Imraan Nyoni. Others are Masudu Tindwa, Roland Aswile, Best Ibrahim, Joseph Mkinga, Musa Mustafa, Said Ramadhani, Juma Hamza, Abdul Ally, Hassan Ally, Shija Bujibu, Shigela Magobo, Masanja Mtemi, Athumani James and Manase Madusa. Reserved men’s are Hussein Mbembati, Mahamudu Omari, Godfrey Samwel, and Peter John. Ladies team include Zuhura Ally (captain), Happiness Gribelt ( vice-captain), Nsara Mkima, Mwanahamis Juma, Agnes Alfan, Zuwena Hassan, Jane Msafiri, Mezea Abdallah, Sauda Msamwili, Marry Maiko, Janet George, Upendo Yunus, Aziza Juma, Zaitun Abdallah, Aneth Mosha and Christina Amani. Also in the lists are four reserved members Ruce Sechonge, Zena Msangila, Nasra Makowa and Rosemary John. Tanzanian teams will battle it out against other teams from Kenya, Cameroon, Egypt, Mauritius, Siera Leone, Uganda and Zimbabwe.