 THE police in Ngara District are investigating the deaths of two people killed in a road accident and the driver of a vehicle involved in the accident has been held for interrogation. Ngara District Commanding Officer (OCD) Abeid Mahige identified the driver as Charles Kamembe (30), a resident of Mwanza City. He explained that on Monday, Kamembe, who was driving a Toyota Land cruiser (T 708 DHS) caused deaths of two pedestrians - Annon Arish (58) and Ihejee Almoud (60) of Indian descend. He said the accident occurred at Kasulo Village in Ngara District, adding that the suspect would be arraigned after investigation. The accident comes hardly two weeks after a tragic road accident claimed 16 lives in Ngara District. On October 24, this year, 16 passengers died in the accident and five bodies, including two Tanzanians and three Burundi nationals, were identified and taken by relatives. Ngara District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr   Revocatus Ndyekobora, said DNA tests were taken on 11 unidentified bodies before they were separately buried at Mukidiri Village, on Tuesday afternoon. Each DNA test was given a special identification number in case a relative came to claim the body of a relative. Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revocatus Malimi said the ill-fated bus (T670 DKL) belonging to Fly Emirates Company overturned 3km away from Ngara Town at about 10am after its brakes failed when descending a steep hill at Kumunyange Village in Ngara District. “At least 13 passengers died on the spot while three others died while admitted to hospital. The bus was plying between Ngara and Bukoba. We appeal to relatives of the passengers who died and those who sustained injuries to come forward and identify them,” the ROC said. President John Magufuli offered condolences to the victims of the road accident in Kagera Region. The death toll had risen from 13 to 16. Dr Magufuli, who was in Karatu District during his presidential campaign ahead of the general election, offered his condolences to the bereaved through Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC) Brig-Gen Marco Gaguti. "I have learned with shock and sadness the death of 16 Tanzanians. May they rest in peace," he said, praying for a speedy recovery of those injured in the grisly accident. He used the opportunity to remind road users, especially motorists, to adhere to road safety rules to avoid unnecessary accidents.  He also called on the traffic police to take legal action against road users who violated traffic rules.