OPPOSITION presidential candidates who battled it out with President elect, Dr John Magufuli, have conceded defeat, as they unanimously paid tribute to the National Electoral Commission (NEC) for delivering a free, fair, transparent and credible election. The nine presidential candidates who participated in the just concluded 2020 General Election addressed a news conference in Dodoma yesterday, just a few hours after NEC declared that the incumbent Dr John Magufuli swept to a landslide victory in the presidential election, securing his second term in office with 84.4 per cent of votes. According to final results announced by NEC, Dr Magufuli fetched. “This is a country that is upholding all principles of democracy, and we were 15 candidates during the just concluded election, but we had to get only one person to ascend to the State House we should know that election is now gone, let’s get back to our usual business,’’ insisted Mr Seif. Ms Cecilia Mwanga (Demokrasia Makini) said the just concluded election had no signs of vote rigging as it was being claimed by a section of political leaders, congratulating Dr Magufuli for a landslide victory. “We should now support the president elect so that we can continue with the fight against poverty in the country,’’ she noted. “In any competition, there should be only one winner, now that Dr Magufuli has won, we should support him in building the nation, because there is no need whatsoever to fight for bricks when we are building one house, said UPDP’s Twalib Kadege. NCCR’s Yeremia Maganja warned some political leaders who were issuing inflammatory statements that were likely to plunge the country into chaos, stating that Tanzania shall always remain strong even after election. “I want to assure the nation that Tanzania shall remain politically stable and socially strong, there is no nation that can take us out of focus,’’ he added. The opposition presidential candidates’ press conference was conducted after some international election observers maintained that the 2020 General Election was conducted in a credible manner and in a peaceful environment.