PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has promised government commitment of en- suring timely payment to contractors un- dertaking the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP) to enable them complete the grand scheme on time. Mwinyi decries poor hospital services The project, implemented at the Stiegler’s Gorge on River Rufiji, is scheduled for completion in June 2022 with a capacity of producing 2,115 MW. Government has already disbursed 1.57tril/- out of 6.55tril/- budgeted for the project. Mr Majaliwa said payment was made in relation to the work done. He was speaking when gracing a crucial stage in the project implementation that involved the diversion of Rufiji River at the area, a move which will be followed by construction of the cofferdam. With the diversion of the water from its normal route, the river will now be passing through the newly-built diversion tunnel at a distance of 703 metres before being reconnected to its traditional route. Mr Majaliwa maintained that the government’s plan was to have the project completed on time for Tanzanians to start enjoying the fruits of the investment. “It’s encouraging to see that the contractors, Arab ConFrom MASATO MASATO in Zanzibar ZANZIBAR President Hussein Ali Mwinyi yesterday bitterly criticised hospital services offered at the Mnazi Mmoja Referral Hospital and ordered the management to rectify the situContinues on Page 3 Continues on Page 3 ation within three months. “Sincerely, I have been upset, this situation will never be left to persist,” President Mwinyi fumed during his impromptu tour of the facility adjacent to his Vuga-based office. Himself a medical doctor, President Mwinyi blasted the hospital management of laxity, charging that many of the problems that haunt the facility were purely managerial. Dr Mwinyi wondered why for instance the hospital, which has received over 3.1bn/- in the past two months, is facing acute shortage of medicines, laboratory equipment and other essential medical supplies and services. “Before coming here, I tractors and Elsewedy Electricity from Egypt, are working hard and so far the project is at a good stage. We are encouraging them to increase the speed as the government is issuing the money on time,” he explained. He said the government has prioritised increased supply of electricity, a move that would stimulate economic activities and expand access to social services across the country. “This is a strategic project that the government has invested highly on as the aim is to ensure adequate supply of power in the country at cheaper price,” he said Ministry Energy Zena Said said that the project has created 6,364 jobs to Tanzanians who make 90 per cent of the entire labour force. Mr Majaliwa expressed his satisfaction on the development, appealing to Tanzanians to continue working diligently while learning from foreign experts. Tanzania Electricity Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) Managing Director Dr Tito Mwinuka said all the activities that were scheduled to be done had been completed and that the project is progressing well. He assured that his company was working closely with the contractor and that local engineers have been highly involved in the project which kicked off on June 15 last year. He commended the competence of Tanzania engineers who have taken part in the project, saying they were doing well. “The next activity after today’s event is to start construction of the cofferdam. Also there is an ongoing activity of excavating the three power waterways for the water to flow to the project where it will be supporting the functions of nine turbines,” he said. Present at the event was Egyptian Minister of Energy and Renewable Resources Prof Mohamed El-Markabi who said his government was closely monitoring the project to ensure it was completed on time. “Our president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi is following up the project in person as he is a man of standards,” he said. According to the minister, Egypt will train 25 Tanzanians for three years to master operations of the power plant.