TANZANIA Geological Society (TGS) has awarded Mr Gabriel Sendeu Laizer, the latest billionaire in the mining sector after unearthing five tonnes of gemstones worth more than 1.7bn/- from his Longido Mine in Arusha Region. TGS awarded the latest billionaire to acknowledge his effort of seeking and utilising geoscientific experts’ opinion, leading to his success in Tanzania’s mining sector. Addressing participants during a four-day TGS annual meeting on Friday, TGS Secretary- General, Dr Elisante Mshiu, said TGS had awarded Mr Sendeu for setting a good example worth emulation by other artisanal miners and stakeholders in the mining sector in the country. However, he said TGS had also awarded Tanzanian geologist Faustine Felician Rutahindurwa for his outstanding performance as a Tanzanian geoscientist. “He is the man behind a number of successes in the exploration and mining of Tanzanite. He has made an impact on Tanzanite that will live for generations to come,” he explained. He said TGS would continue working closely with the government, small-scale miners, investors and other development partners for the professional development of geoscience in the country so that it could bring about greater productivity. Mr Mshiu noted that a fourday workshop aimed at bringing together a multidisciplinary group of brilliant geoscientists working in different sectors to interact and share insights of their latest research, milestones, technological advancements and new policies related to minerals and energy in the country. He said the workshop would feature 54 high quality oral and poster presentations, where a special platform of renowned and experienced scientists from public and private sectors would discuss various topics, including Tanzania’s mineral and gem houses, development in the energy sector in Tanzania and stakeholders’ involvement in small-scale mining. Speaking after receiving his award and a plot of 700m² from Global Link Company Limited and Mr Sendeu Laizer’s award on his behalf, the geologist thanked TGS for recognising his contribution to the mining sector, while promising to work tirelessly in support of the government to fulfil its goals in the sector. Mr Rutahindurwa advised the government to employ more geologists who would serve Tanzanite mining as currently the country had only 15 geologists who dealt only with Tanzanite mining, while more than 30 geologists were needed. “Lack of capital is the biggest challenge in the sector. I would advise the government to look into a possibility of producing and increasing more capital to small-scale miners and owners of mining sites,” he said. Speaking with the ‘Daily News’ by phone from Arusha on behalf of Mr Sendeu Laizer, Mr Kirian Laizer who is Mr Sendeu Laizer manager praised TGS for the award, which he said would encourage other miners to work under the directives of TGS as experts. He also praised President John Magufuli for improving the mining sector in the country which was benefitting all Tanzanians as the government kept on implementing major development projects across the country.