RUKWA pulled yet another win against Katavi to cement their top position of CRDB Taifa Cup basketball tournament taking place here at Chinangali courts. The win, according to the Saturday’s latest standing, has put them on top of Group A with four points from two outings, followed by Tabora, Kilimanjaro ( three each), Ilala, Katavi ( two each) and tail enders, Shinyanga with a single point. The duo of Isack Mwampashi and Lawi Mwambasi scored 14 points each as Baraka Mopele and Justin Paul each added 12 others for their classic performance. Paul also made five assists with Emmanuel Lucha taking three just to add on their individual best re cords while Mwampashi also grabbed six rebounds. Morogoro (men) had a bad day when they lost to Mtwara 44-43 in yet another thrilling and closely fought battle. In the women’s discipline, Arusha girls have continued their prowess to whip Singida by 63-17 while Coast outsmarted Mwanza by 56- 49 at court B. According to the Saturday’s latest updated standing, Mbeya are leading group B ( men) with 4 points, Simiyu are second with 3 while Coast have two points. Mwanza, Kigoma and Manyara are following up with one point each. Dodoma are leading group C with four points, followed by Songwe, Tanga, Morogoro ( two points each) while CRDB Youth and Mtwara each have a single point. Group D’s leaders are Temeke with four points, Iringa 3, Unguja 2 while Arusha, Pemba and Singida each have one point. The women’s group A leaders are Coast with four points from two outings, Mwanza, Morogoro (two points each) while Iringa have one point. Group C is being led by Unguja (three points), CRDB Youth (that consists of Under-19 players), Mbeya and Tanga each have two points. The two-week tournament that will climax on November 21 has been sponsored by CRDB Bank with over 900 women, men and young basketballers from both Mainland and Zanzibar regions taking part. Apart from financial prizes, the sponsors have also set aside about 50 million/- that will finance academic scolarships for best young basketballers to be selected by the technical team.