The Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAA) on Thursday organised a two-day workshop in Dar es Salaam for its members to brainstorm their contribution to the country’s middle-income economy. TAA Chairman Lucas Mwambuja said when opening the workshop, accountants and auditors had a great role to play in the country’s industrialisation drive shaped by financial discipline. The chair said accountants and auditors should collectively know that their contribution to institutions, which make money to drive the economy, hinged on their financial discipline. The two-day workshop held under the accountants and auditors’ participation in sustainability of Tanzania’s Middle-Income Economy: Opportunities, Challenges and the way forward theme. Presiding at on behalf of the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning James Dotto, Assistant Accountant General Aziz Kifwile said as financial professionals they should be at the driver’s seat for the country to climb another rank in the middle-income economy ladder. “You (accountants and auditors) should constantly realise that industrailisation of the country means money at the core, and you are the engine of any business making money, hence, use your skills to assist the government realise the goal,” he added. In the sidelines of the workshop, former Controller and Auditor General Ludovick Utouh told reporters that the country deserved praise for being grouped into the middle-income economy class by the World Bank (WB). “All these were dreams of the Founding Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere to industrialise the country, but somewhere supervision amongst the people delegated the duty relaxed and all the companies and factories started with goodwill collapsed. “It is now good that the government under President John Magufuli is reviving that to the extent that the country’s economy is growing and make the WB put us in the middle-income economy,” he added. Retired Controller and Auditor General (CAG) Pius Maneno said the workshop would also be a forum for professionals and stakeholders from different fields to meet and chart out ways to improve Tanzania’s move to further scale up the middle economy. “Precisely, look at the national economic growth and the country’s ascending to the middle class economy that was cited by the WB, all economic sectors have accountants and auditors sealing loopholes of money leakage.” TAA is an accountancy professional organisation for accountants established in 1983 under the Friendly Societies Act of 1954, as a member representative body of all professional accountants and aspiring accountants registered and working in Tanzania. TAA’s mission is to provide services to and on behalf of its members in public accounting, industry, education and government aimed at facilitating their professional and social development and promote public confidence in their services.