NMB Bank has been a leading financial institution in Ilala Municipality in Dar es Salaam region that spends most of its revenue to assist communities in the fields of education and health through its Corporate Social Programme (CSR). Making the revelation while closing Ilala Municipal Taxpayer’s Day conference in Dar es Salaam, NMB bank Project Manager for Social Responsibility, Lilian Kisamba said through the initiative the bank has been at the forefront of many financial institutions in the region working with the government to ensure quality health and education services are available to the public. The move prompted the municipality through the area District Commissioner Ng’wilubuzu Ludigija to present the bank with a Certificate of Appreciation that was being presented to the 100 Best Institutions, Companies and Merchants. Speaking at the forum, the Officer said that from January 2020 to today the bank has provided 218.9 m/- in Dar es Salaam region for projects that directly affect the community. She said that out of that amount, 153.9 m/- have been spent in the education sector and 65 m/- to health, besides supporting 26 schools to have 300 desks and cater for 3,900 pupils. In her explanation, she noted that six schools received 40 m/- to purchase for them iron sheets. In another step, the bank used the occasion to assure businesses in Ilala Municipality and Tanzania in general, the availability of low interest loans, as well as education and financial advice for the well-being of their businesses. On his part, NMB Senior Manager for Government Business Unit–Adelard Mang’ombo said: “At NMB we promise innovation for entrepreneurs with the aim of not only making it easier for the government in collecting revenue through us, but also reducing the temporary inconvenience to payers to follow services, instead they are served where they are through our digital platforms.” However, he assured the entrepreneurs who participated in the forum, that NMB is the right partner to give them faster economic and commercial growth, through low interest loans, quick access, with flexible terms and conditions available in all its branches. The DC, who was the guest of honor, commended the business community for its positive tax incentives among traders, while promising them necessary support in the establishment and development of their businesses. Mr Ludigija further noted that the government is proud of the taxpayers paying on time taxes in the municipality, saying: “NMB as a major support to the government in tax and revenue collections should assured that the taxes will be used effectively to improve the lives and infrastructure of Tanzanians.”