AS the 12th Parliament opened its doors on Tuesday in Dodoma by first seeing the newly elected legislators to the National Assembly taking oath of office or in another word swearing in, one thing instantly comes in mind-serving Tanzanians is their collective responsibility. The legislators individually swore to be honest and fight to safeguard the constitution of the Republic of Tanzania that means serving the country (read its citizens) and asking God to lead and guide, which in another word pledging to put the interest of the people first. This kind of pledge traces them (the MPs) to the days when they crisscrossed their respective constituencies during the campaigns assuring the electorates that their community challenges namely water woes, electricity, poor infrastructures among others would be addressed if they would be elected and now the ball is in their court. As the Speaker of the National Assembly, Job Ndugai has just pointed out, the work ahead has challenges and not easy going as any might be tempted to think. They would be tasked to lead and make wise decisions for the welfare and lives of the citizens. They would be tasked to take part in the debates to come up with wise budgets for ministries, which will spearhead and supervise implementation of the community projects, without which the government will be seen as not doing its work. Equally, they will be tasked to keenly and soberly discuss and vote on bills, which will later be laws to govern the country and its citizens. For that matter, these legislators should individually know that the work ahead requires God’s guidance and wisdom to implement. Revisiting Speaker Ndugai’s piece of advice to them, it is time now for the MPs to desist from ‘ndio mzee’ style of unanimously voting a bill or budget when there is a glaring weakness everyone is seeing. The Speaker has also pointed out without mincing words that despite the majority being in the ruling party that has formed the government, still constructive criticism for the sake of development and nation building is necessary. Tanzanians want development and not mere words and unending politics as President John Magufuli also pointed out during his inauguration speech that the days of politics are now gone, it is time for kazi (work). After their individual oath taking, Tanzanians wish them well as role models and for that matter, it will be shameful and tarnishing the name of the National Assembly to find some derailing from the oath they took and decide to clandestinely put their interests first.