IN my last sports column on Wednesday this week, I laid accent on the need for the Taifa Stars coach, Etienne Ndayiragije to cast his eyes beyond the three big clubs, Simba, Young Africans and Azam when searching for good players. I said that because the best players are not only confined to the three clubs. If the best players came from the three sides, then we would not have witnessed the three clubs drawing or losing matches against other clubs in league. Since the start of the new season, Simba have lost two matches in a row and drawn one and their arch soccer rivals, Young Africans have drawn not less than two matches. That in itself shows you that there are also better players outside the three big teams, hence the need for the coach to cast his eyes beyond the three top clubs. That is not all. Simba, Young Africans, Mtibwa Sugar and Azam have better players than what two teams, Simba and Young Africans parade as their senior teams. I have excluded Mtibwa Sugar from the list of four because the Morogoro region based club is actually entirely made up of players who have been transformed into a senior team. They had initially formed the club’s U-20 team which had beaten their counterparts in Young Africans, Simba and Azam. In short, Mtibwa did not register new players from other clubs. They simply promoted their youth team into a senior team. Although they lack experience, but in less than two years, the new Mtibwa Sugar team would be a force to reckon with. The problem with Mtibwa Sugar management is that they have always been selling their players to Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC. And that has repeatedly had a major effect on Mtibwa Sugar in terms of the club’s development and growth. But had they remained with their players, they would have long been one of the most feared clubs in the country. For years, Mtibwa Sugar have also repeatedly served as a centre for providing local players to Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC. And this is what the Burundian Ndayiragije, now need to do, to go for these fast, paced young players from Mtibwa Sugar and other U-20 players. Simply put, Ndayiragije needs to start building up his own team of new players from these U-20 teams in the country. The Burundian coach is very lucky in that there is presently the on-going U-20 regional (CECAFA) soccer tournament in Tanzania which Tanzania is also taking part. It is my hope that he is following closely the performance of each and every Tanzanian player in the on-going U-20 CECAFA tournament. There are players like Kelvin John and others. The sooner he makes his decision on these young players, the better for him. Ndayiragije should take courage by picking only good players from Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC. He does not need to pick many players from the three top teams just for the heck of it. I’m strongly convinced that only by increasing the number of good players from outside the three top teams that Taifa Stars will perform better than what they are doing at present. Whether we like it or not, football is nothing but youthfulness. The more youthful a player is the more likely such a player would perform better. Youthfulness is important in soccer because the modern game requires a lot of pace which dwindles with the onset of age. That is why it is not easy for a soccer player whose age is beyond thirty to do well in the modern game which requires, among others speed, strength and endurance. The other thing the coach would have to do is search for young Tanzanian players who are playing in different levels in Europe. He needs to go for those players because they have been better trained and would be more receptive to his training. It takes a skillful, well trained player to follow, to the letter, instructions from his coach on the kind of tactics that would be employed by his team against their opponents. Most readers must have followed the English premier league match played last week between Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspurs. That was pure tactics. Mourinho packed his defence and scored both goals either through counterattack or defensive mix ups. Now you cannot do that if you have players who cannot execute what you have told them to do. Of course, Guardiola knows that his counterpart likes to pack the bus. But he did not expect to get what he got in which their hosts scored their first goal very early in the match and went on not only to protect their lead, but also to score the second goal at a time when the visitors appeared to be making heavy inroads into their opponents’ half. Two weeks ago, Taifa Stars, through the assistance of Ndayiragije almost succeeded in doing what Tottenham Hotspurs had done, away from home, in Tunis against Tunisia. But they lost the match by a lone goal through their goalkeeper’s foul in his penalty box when he brought down a Tunisian striker. Aishi Manula was forced out of his goal to confront the on-rushing Tunisian striker because his defenders had slept on the job! The same thing happened in Dar when Taifa Stars forced Tunisia to a one all draw. Had the defence did their job well, the Tunisians would not have scored that goal very early in the match. What does that mean? Very simple. Fei Toto’s equalizer in the dying minutes of the match would have served as Taifa Stars’ victory. Again, it was our defence which let us down. And that has more to do with the kind of aging defenders we have, hence the dire need for the Burundian coach to look for new blood, and now.