The EU might yet split over Brexit — but it wouldn’t be in London’s favour. Senior EU officials and diplomats say that several countries — including France, the Netherlands and Spain — are worried that the EU’s mission-focused chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, may be too eager to conclude a deal with the U.K. side, and that EU heads of state and government will have to step in to stop an agreement that is worse for the bloc than a no-deal scenario. Overall, EU27 officials, and officials in the EU institutions in Brussels, would much prefer to reach an agreement. But the rising anxiety, particularly in three countries with such close ties to Britain, and their emphasis that the EU27 should not accept a deal at any price, highlights how badly the atmosphere was poisoned by the U.K.’s Internal Market Bill, and the willingness of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government to unpick unilaterally some of the key provisions of the Brexit Withdrawal Agreement. “We prefer an agreement but not a bad deal,” said a senior EU diplomat who is following the talks closely. “But the difficulties remain and the U.K. has not moved enough on fundamental questions that would allow us to have an economically balanced deal, including fisheries, governance and level-playing field. ” With national EU27 leaders largely preoccupied by the coronavirus emergency, there is relatively little attention being paid in Continental capitals to Brexit and the late-stage negotiations with the U.K. As a result, several officials and diplomats said there was greater pressure on Barnier than at any other point in the four-year process, along with higher risks than ever of a disconnect even as Barnier and his team provide constant updates and briefings. The officials and diplomats described the negotiator as walking a tightrope between trying to secure a historic agreement with London and the unwillingness of the EU27 to shift their brightest red line regarding a so-called “level playing field” — making sure that the U.K. cannot undercut the bloc after it has left. Other diplomats said that with Barnier reaching the EU’s mandatory retirement age in January there were concerns that the veteran French statesman would be understandably determined to seal his own legacy by clinching a historic accord with Britain, and that given his marching orders to negotiate until the very last minute, it could be difficult to accept that “no deal” could be a better outcome for EU citizens and businesses. “There’s full trust in Barnier but sometimes I think that a deal would be a kind of life achievement for him, and he could have temptations to compromise not in line with the feelings in some capitals,” said an EU diplomat who works on Brexit. One high-level EU official, who is briefed regularly on the talks, described the negotiations as a “thriller” — with the outcome still very much a real-life cliff-hanger. “It is very difficult to predict what will happen,” the official said. “If you remember [the U.K.] expressed several times deadlines, finally they didn’t follow the deadlines that they expressed and we know exactly what are the fundamental difficulties and we know exactly what is the European red line: we are ready on the one hand to propose a trade agreement, zero-tariff, zero-quota, but of course with a level playing field. ” Carry on negotiating Several EU officials expressed concern that the departure of Johnson’s chief adviser Dominic Cummings did not appear to result in any softening from the U.K.’s chief negotiator, David Frost. Others in Brussels said that such expectations of a more conciliatory approach amounted to wishful thinking. A second EU diplomat said that amid rising unease, it was likely EU leaders would talk about Brexit during a videoconference on Thursday, even though the meeting is intended to focus on the coronavirus pandemic. “Member states are becoming more and more impatient,” the second diplomat said. “Of course everybody prefers a deal,” the second diplomat added. “But if the prospects of a deal are too limited, then the Commission should urgently table the contingency proposals. ” Uncertainty about when Barnier will brief EU ambassadors has only increased anxiety. “Capitals are getting too nervous that they don’t know what’s going on in the important last phase of the process,” the second diplomat said. “Of course we trust the Commission, and they very well know all the red lines, but the pressure from capitals is increasing.” The senior EU diplomat envisioned two scenarios under which negotiators fail to reach an agreement that can be implemented before the end of the Brexit transition period on December 31 — one bad, and one worse. “The EU will negotiate right to the end because it’s in its DNA,” the senior diplomat said. In the bad scenario, the diplomat said “it is impossible to reach a deal because it’s too complex to meet the deadlines and the U.K. has not been able to make its choice under the necessary deadline and things are done without acrimony.” In that case, the senior diplomat said, negotiations could continue on friendly terms after the two sides have fallen back on World Trade Organization rules. In the worse scenario, the current talks break off angrily and it will take a long time to resume discussions. “If there’s no deal and things become more acrimonious, and it doesn’t go well, it will be more complicated and will take more time,” the senior diplomat said, adding that the U.K. seemed overly focused on breaking with the EU rather than forging a new future