THE Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA) has issued an alert over a five-day weather impact in four mainland regions and parts of the Zanzibar archipelago. TMA said in its weather advisory issued on Saturday that heavy rains were expected to begin on November 8th through November 10th. The advisory said the rains were expected in Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Tanga and Coastal regions. The weather forecast said the five-day heavy rains were also expected on the Island of Mafia in the Coast region, and the twin Isles of Pemba and Unguja in Zanzibar. TMA said the rains were expected to cause flooding, disrupting transport and businesses in the regions. Rains last month left 12 people dead in Dar es Salaam. The month of November 2020 is expected to mark the onset of the short rains over the Northern coast and Northeastern highlands. Likewise, the long rains are expected to start over most areas of the unimodal (western, central, southwestern highlands, southern region, the southern coast and southern parts of Morogoro region) during this month. The short rains over the northern coast and northeastern highlands are expected to start during the second and third week of November 2020. However, the majority of unimodal areas will see the long rains expected starting soon during November 2020. Moreover, thundershowers are also expected to continue over some areas of the Lake Victoria Basin. The Northern Coast includes Tanga, Pwani, Dar es Salaam regions, and northern sector of Morogoro region, Mafia, Unguja and Pemba Islands. According to TMA, short rains are expected to start over in some areas of the coastal belt especially during the second and third week of November 2020. Rainfall enhancement is expected during the third week of November 2020. The expected impacts, according to the authority, include the outbreak of waterborne diseases due to periodic shortage of clean and safe water, conflict between farmers and pastoralists due to inadequate pasture and water, as well as the risk of forest fires that is likely to be elevated. TMA advised relevant authorities to prepare strategies to mitigate the associated impacts, including putting in place appropriate actions and preparedness measures for addressing the negative effects of rainfall shortage.