THE government has cautioned the public over increasing cases of Non Communicable Diseases (NDCs) in the country, calling upon the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) to direct more efforts in the area to reduce the burden on government and individual citizens. Chief Medical  Officer ( CMO)  Prof  Abel  Makubi  said that  although NIMR  had embarked on  national survey  on the diseases, it  should   focus  more in the area  to avoid posing  additional  burden to  the government. The CMO made the remark on Friday at the launch of NIMR 40th commemoration events held in Dar es Salaam. He said that NDCs are on the rise thus they should be given priority because they have started to affect young generation. Prof Makubi cited hypertension saying that the disease is also affecting youth who also develop more complications earlier such as kidney diseases and stroke. Other diseases include diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases. He added that the fight against NCDs also require behavior change thus there was a need of involving the society in order to win the war. "We are  all aware  that NCDs are on the rise ... the ministry  is aware  of the  contribution  by NIMR  in the area  through its research  which have helped  to identify the magnitude of the problem  in the country  and  risk factors," he said. He added that the survey has helped in establishment of Non Communicable Diseases program which gave priority in the area. NIMR Director General Prof Yunus Mgaya said NIMR  has  recorded tremendous achievements in health research over  the last  40 years of  its existence  including  government response  to  Non Communicable  Diseases  (NDC)  which  have  become  a growing  health  threat  globally He said that the national survey carried out by NIMR on NCDs helped to highlight the burden of the diseases    including diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular diseases risk factors. "The results of the study helped to inform the NCD strategic plan 2016/2020 and other government efforts to respond to NCD burden," he said. He noted that other on- going  NCD- related studies  include  the H3A diabetes  study  which  document  the prevalence  and environmental  and genetic  determinant  of type 2  diabetes  in Sub Saharan Africa. "This study will fill  the knowledge gap  of the causes  or reasons  for acquiring  diabetes  especially  in Sub- Sharan  Africa... this will guarantee  much   needed evidence  on the  types and subtypes  of diabetes  and generate  evidence  of specific  drivers of  diabetes," Prof Mgaya  said. He said that  some  other  major achievements  in research  that had  implications  to policy  and practice  include studies  on anti-malarial  conducted at  NIMR  Amani and Tanga  centres  which contributed  to  the change of  treatment of  malaria  from chloroquine  to sulphadoxine - pyrimethamine( SP)  and from SP  to Artemether  Combination Therapy ( ACT). "This has resulted  in improving  malaria  case  management  and ultimately  reducing  morbidity  and mortality  in Tanzania," Prof Mgaya  added. He further said that NIMR also  contributed to  improvements  in HIV diagnosis and treatment  through its study  on reduction  of early  mortality  among HIV-infected  subjects  starting  antiretroviral  therapy  known as REMSTART  trial. Prof Mgaya said that the study   revealed a new approach to manage patients with advanced HIV in Tanzania and Zambia. He  further  said that  NIMR  Muhimbili centre  also in collaboration with  National  Tuberculosis  and Leprosy  Control Programme  has  contributed  to improved  quality  of the Central  Tuberculosis  Reference  Laboratory  and other  TB  laboratories  in the country. Prof Mgaya  however said that  in commemorating 40 – year  milestone  NIMR  has  planned a series of activities  during the month of  November to December  this year which will be   held at all NIMR centres and headquarters  in the country.   