AIRTEL Tanzania has launched receive money instantly into Airtel Money wallets campaign from over 200 countries worldwide. Airtel Tanzania Director of Airtel Money services, Isack Nchunda said at the launching event that the campaign ‘Vuka boda’ na Airtel Money allows Airtel customers to receive money from 200 countries widening the access of money transfer for recipients in Tanzania’s urban and rural areas. “We are connecting Airtel Money customers to the world with over 200 countries they can receive money instantly making the services boardless,” he said. He added, “Our vision has always been at providing unique and affordable products and services which fit in to the daily lives of customers,” Key countries with highest traffic include the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy, Norway, South Korea among others, not mentioning all East African countries where Airtel Money customers can Send and Receive money from all East African Countries. With the initiative, Airtel customers can receive money transfers directly to their mobile wallets without the need for a bank account or internet connection. The launch is aimed at further promoting and deepening financial inclusion among Tanzanians. As per the latest statistics from the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), Tanzania has more than 30.5 million mobile money subscriptions with total mobile money transactions value pegged at more than 11.5tri/-by September this year. In recent years, mobile money has evolved from traditional payments such as domestic remittances and airtime topups, to more complex financial products. “We are delighted to ensure that Tanzanians can now have access to financial support from their family and friends from across the world,” he added. Airtel Tanzania Communications Manager, Jackson Mmbando said that mobile money has already helped reduce transaction costs, improved safety for individuals and businesses, and enhanced the efficiency of the economy by reducing the need for users to travel long distances to make transactions in person. Airtel Money has over 13 million registered customers in the country and is currently connected to over 1000 companies including utility service providers and is also integrated with over 40 financial institutions. In addition, Airtel Tanzania ha more than 1700 Airtel Money branches providing all Airtel services and products at all times.