THE ongoing government infrastructure investment for flood control in Dar es Salaam region and other parts of the country will play a key role in reducing damages and poverty related effects to the people. The government recently unveiled a grand plan to improve infrastructure in Dar es Salaam city with over 6 million people that will facilitate businesses and influence investment. The ongoing projects implemented in Dar es Salaam region and other parts of the country include road construction, bridges, feeder roads, flyovers and railway. The World Bank report on Draining Dar’s Economy – The Impact of Floods on Tanzania’s Commercial Capital of 2019 states that boosting the Dar es Salaam’s resilience to floods will not only help affected households escape poverty, but will also boost the city’s important economic contribution to a more prosperous Tanzania. “A balanced integration of traditional infrastructure focused measures, such as dredging and channeling works, drainage systems, combined with innovative nature-based solutions can be accompanied by non-structural measures such as risk-informed land use planning, building guidelines, forecasting and early warning systems,” stated the report. The Chief Operating Officer of Plasco Limited, Alimiya Osman said in an interview that the ongoing investment in infrastructure in various parts of the country will lift people from floods that have continued to affect economic activities during every rainy season. Plasco Limited has been working with Tanzanian municipalities and the private sector through various construction companies providing Weholite pipe solutions in different construction projects, one of which is the stormwater drainage line for the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) Terminal III project in Dar es Salaam. Experts are adamant that with better design and planning and by utilizing better drainage materials, such as Weholite pipes, the problem could be avoided, and in doing so, living standards could be raised for generations to come. Weholite pipes are used in low pressure and gravity applications for stormwater management, sewage treatment systems, culverts, marine pipelines and irrigation water distribution. These applications make Weholite pipes suitable for not only municipal but also industrial uses. “Plasco is the exclusive licensee for Weholite technology in Tanzania, and being made from HDPE, it gives it unique properties that make it far superior to traditional pipe materials and a far better option for urban flood management. “To put things into perspective, most of the current drainage systems are outdated and becoming overwhelmed by the current demand for evacuation of storm water, but with Weholite technology, we can design systems that will provide solutions for over 100 years,” he said. 