ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has appointed Mr Hemed Suleiman Abdalla as new Second VicePresident yesterday. He was appointed Second Vice- President few minutes after he joined other legislators to be sworn-in as Members of the House of Representatives. The Isles State House statement of his appointment was read to the members of the Zanzibar House of Representatives yesterday afternoon by the Speaker Zubeir Ali Maulid before adjourning the session to Tuesday. Mr Abdalla served as Administrative Officer in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, then Ministry of Trade and Industries during President Amani Karume regime, before he was appointed District Commissioner (DC). Prior to his new role, Mr Hemed was the Regional Commissioner (RC) for South Pemba and he has been widely honored for good performance in his region. Mr Hemed replaces Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, who has retired. According to section 39 (1) of the Isles Constitution of 1984 (2010 amendments), Zanzibar President is required to appoint First and Second Vice-Presidents seven days after being sworn-in as President. President Hussein Mwinyi yesterday sworn-in Mr Suleiman Ahmed Saleh as his Private Secretary at the Isles State House. The swearing in ceremony was also attended by the Chief Secretary Dr Abdulhamid Yahya Mzee, the Attorney General Dr Mwinyi Talib Haji, Regional Commissioner (RC) for Urban-West Region Mr Hassan Khatib Hassan, and other dignitaries. Backed by section 53 of the Zanzibar Constitution-1984, last Wednesday Dr Mwinyi appointed Saleh his private. Dr Mwinyi is now forming up his 8th phase government, following his landslide victory in the October 27/ 28, 2020 General Election in which, 15 presidential candidates from different political parties contested for the Isles top position. Meanwhile, the President has called for post-election peace and unity, urging people; particularly those from the opposition here not resort to violence to resolve their grievances. “Let us avoid breach ofpeace and stability because the price of violence is too high for our people and nation. People are suffering in countries where they engaged in internal conflicts. “Elections are over, get back to work with determination to achieve the development goals,” Dr Mwinyi said. Zanzibar Election Commission (ZEC) announced Mwinyi’s victory and his ruling CCM winning majority seats in both Unguja and Pemba, which has in the past elections, been the opposition stronghold. Most of the political parties which took part in the election have recognised Dr Mwinyi’s victory except the ACT-Wazalendo and CHADEMA