PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Friday inaugurated the 12th Parliament, outlining his key priorities in the next five years, with some ambitious socio-economic growth targets. In a 1.20-hour speech, the Head of State said his government was looking to improve macroeconomic and monetary policies as well as ensuring that all economic indicators, interest rates, inflation and shilling value remain stable. Dr Magufuli said his government will continue to improve the education sector, by providing free basic education as well as increasing the budget for higher education students loans. "We will also continue improving infrastructure in schools including building new laboratories, dormitories, classes, hostels, laboratories, lecture halls as well as offices and houses for teachers,’’ he said adding: "We will equally continue sensitising the importance of science subjects especially to girls that is why we intend in the next five years to build at least one girls science school in every region.’’ The President also pledged that for the next five years, the government would continue improving the National Water Fund (NWF) by providing more funds so that it can be able to execute various water projects. "We will also accomplish the implementation of grand water projects including the 1.2tril/- project for supplying water in 28 towns, the water project from Lake Victoria which is being implemented at the cost of 600bn/- as well as the Arusha Water project estimated at the cost of 520bn/-.’’ He noted. Dr Magufuli said the government would continue putting up modern infrustructure for health provision including building health centres, dispensaries and district hospitals in areas that do not have such facilities. "We also plan to improve insurance services to make sure that by 2025 all Tanzanians have access to National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) services,’’ he added. He said the government will also improve the energy sector, with enhanced rural electrification. According to Dr Magufuli, his government will continue implementing flagship projects including the 1,445 Hoima-Tanga Oil Pipeline, Standard Gauge Railway, Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project as well as the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) project in Lindi Region, among others. In his second and final term in office, the President said, Tanzania would continue cementing  its relations with foreign nations by considering the country’s Foreign Policy which focuses on economic diplomacy. He added that the country would equally intensify its collaboration with neighbours in the East African Community (EAC), Southern Africa Development Community (SADC), African Union and United Nations (UN). "On the same note, we expect to intensify efforts in the growth of the country’s democracy, people’s rights and freedom of press,” insisted Dr Magufuli. “However, I want to remind people that the major objective of democracy is development and not chaos,’’ he swiftly warned adding that there was no democracy without boundaries as well as absolute freedom. Furthermore, Dr Magufuli said his government was fully committed to improving people's habitats by ensuring that construction materials were obtained at lower prices, dealing with climate change issues, helping special groups including elders and disability groups, intensifying the fight against drugs as well as ensuring owners of vehicles were giving contracts to their drivers, among others. "In fact we are planning to implement various projects and many of them are outlined in the 303-page document of our party’s manifesto which we used during our campaigns to tell Tanzanians on what we are planning to do for them in the next five years,” he stated.