SOME scientific researches indicate that the first animal to evolve with what may be called an ancient eye appeared about 600 million years ago, but through genetic features researchers have discovered that the real eye among vertebrates evolved about 540 million years ago. Through the use of fossils records scientists estimate the first animal carrying an eye evolved when the world was dominated by creatures with exoskeletons, different researches indicate that the first eyed animals had light sensitive mechanism which depended on photoreceptors cell which originated from their ancestors who had very weak brain. Fossils records indicate that evolution of an eye took good stage about 525 million years ago when the first ancestors of vertebrate animals evolved into the earth, these were mysterious creatures which had a well defined head and tail that enabled the balance of their bodies as they moved from one point to another on the world which was going through different geological and weather changes, these earlier vertebrate animals had no jaws to survival they were forced to dwell very close to the sea where it was possible to capture prey with soft bodies. During that time, it was ancient predators that evolved with powerful vision which helped them to chase and capture their prey, that is about 485.4 million years ago when the planet was still recovering from an earlier weather which was dominated by falling of snow from the sky. Among animals of the savannah, elephants have limited mobility of the eyes but different researches indicated that they can see well in dim light but not in bright light, scientists say the weakness happens because their eye contains very few photoreceptors and they cannot see very well further than 10 meters but some time they are able to see even from 20 meters when they venture into shade of tropical savannah. Although they able to do anything they want, lions spend 16 to 20 hours of their day time for resting, socialising, grooming, and marking of boundaries of pride territory for male lions. When they feel like hunting, lioness may organise themselves for a hunting activity but after two hours if they found it’s very difficult to locate, chase and capture a prey they will wait for a night where darkness is their greatest allies. Human, primates and bovine’s eyes have evolved to a greatest achievement of being able to see in full colour tiny dust particles and huge mountains which may be located near or very far. When light fade as night approaches, both human, primates and bovine’s eyes adjust themselves immediately because they have evolved to work in a dimly light environment only because of a smart brain which process and translate faded picture of an object. With that great ability of our minds, as the night grow older our vision become poor to point that whenever we want to go outside we need assistants from artificial source of light. Lions are mammals that have eyes which work at the same level like human eyes during day light but at night these predators see eight times more than human being. Scientists say lions see mainly in blue and greens environment, with highly developed night vision, this doesn’t mean they can see in the dark because if they work on a pitch black they will be blind. Lion’s eyes are designed to work effectively in darkness where they are able to pick and use very little light available even from stars and moon. Lions have more rod cells than cone cells in the retina of the eye, these are photoreceptor or light sensitive cells, and they function to convert visible electromagnetic radiations or light into signals which stimulate biological process. Lion’s eyes are equipped with two photoreceptor cells which are rods and cones, each of these cells contributing information used by the visual system to form a representation of the visual activities. Cones cells are wider which work as colour detector while rods cells are narrow and they are responsible for light as they are distributed differently across the retina. This shows that lions have more light sensitive cells packed tightly in the fovea which is the most sensitive area of the retina, this means their eyes need little amount of light to see something in the darkness than human eyes. Lions have what is known as a Tapetum lucidum, this is a reflective layer of cells positioned behind the retina. This means that light entering into the lion’s eyes will be absorbed by either the rod or cone cells, light that passes through the retina and the photoreceptor cells is reflected back by the Tapitum lucidum while the light sensitive cells have a second chance to absorb the light waves, in effect doubling the effectiveness of their night vision. Despite many people’s belief, a lion’s eyes do not glow in darkness, but they contain a special reflective coating that will reflect even moonlight. Scientists say lions have big eyes, this reflective layer results in the eerie or eye shine which is seen when a light shine on lion’s eyes at night is also found in other mammals in the savannah except rhino which its eyes doesn’t have eye shine. Outside each eye of lions, there are white patches which are located under each eye and work to enhance a little amount of light available while enabling the super predator to work effectively at night. To work successful at night, lions also use their powerful noses with high sense of smell which is capable to pick small particles in the air and effectively sniff them while sending clear message to the brain which translate them. From this point a lion will use the direction of wind to detect where a herd of wildebeest is hiding inside the vast grassland of Serengeti national park. To work toward this hidden location which may be in the middle of a huge bush, lions employ their whiskers or vibrissae which are larger and longer than other hairs around the mouth. Whiskers grow out of very sensitive tissues which are able to detect small movement in the air, this ability helps lions to recognise its way to the intended location without a clear sight. Whiskers or vibrissae hair is usually thicker and stiffer than other types of pelagic hair but, like other hairs, their shaft consists of an inert material known as keratin which contains no nerves. However, vibrissae are different from other hair structures because they grow from a special hair follicle incorporating a capsule of blood called a blood sinus which is heavily innervated by sensory nerves. Lion’s whiskers are able to pick heart beats of a prey which help its brain to picture out size and spice type of the intended prey. As they work toward their prey at night, lions use whiskers to detect obstacles and avoid aggravating their prey until when they reach a good or strategic position for an attack. From the sky is an eagle with one of the sharpest eye in the savannah, the bird may be flying more than 900 meter or near cloud level at over 2,000 meters above the ground but capable of scanning the land bellow. Scientific researchers have indicated that the eye of an eagle is more than twice as long as a human eye, also it has a visual acuity 3.0 to 3.6 times that of humans, this ability enables the bird to spot a potential prey from a very long distance, this keen eyesight is primarily attributed to their extremely large pupils which ensure minimal diffraction or little amount of light is scattered as it is coming into the eye. This is a special mechanism that allows a special amount of light to bend according the size of wavelength in respect of the size of the bird’s eyes, it is said that if the size of the eye is larger than the light’s wavelength then the bending of light will not be noticed by the bird as it flying for the target. From the sky the eagles have tremendous eyesight, whereas humans see three basic colours, eagles see five, they have five times more light sensitive cells which are estimated to be about one million per square millimeter of retina than those which are found in human’s eyes regardless of their age or sex. Scientists describe the sky as is everything that lays above the surface of the Earth, including the atmosphere and outer space but itself the atmosphere of Earth is a layer of gases surrounding the planet Earth that is retained by Earth’s gravity. The sky is where flight is borne, a process by which an object moves, through or beyond the sky using buoyancy which allow movement without direct contact with the ground, scientifically, flight is considered as the fastest speed on Earth where the magnitude of an object’s velocity or the rate of changing its position is high. As if it’s playing or resting, this bird can be seen hovering slowly in the sky above national park, game reserves and villages which surrounded reserved forest, peregrine falcons do this slow motion while looking around the sky and on the ground in search of a prey such as small size birds, mammal and different reptiles. From a long distant position, Peregrine falcons are capable to identify their prey using big eyes which are armed with sharp vision capable of locating a pigeon flying many miles away or mice trotting on the ground. Falcon’s eyes transmit the picture of the intended prey to the brain which analyses its position, feature and weight, all for a quick decision which lead to a speedy attack, from this point a Peregrine falcon will dive high then bust into a top speed of 320 kilometers per hour which is three time higher than the top speed of Cheetah of Serengeti, Tarangire and Ruaha national parks. Scientists say to protect their eyes, the falcons are equipped nictitating membranes or third eyelids to spread tears and clear debris from their eyes while moving very fast on air and maintaining perfect vision, it is also said peregrine falcons are capable of reaching a theoretical speed of 400 kilometers per hour on low altitude flight and 625 kilometers per hour for high altitude flight. Speed at high altitude is nothing with sharp eyes, in the savannah vulture may be seen rotating in the sky at one thousand miles to scan the ground for a meal, at the same time in the savannah eland, bushbuck, buffalo, waterbuck and other antelopes die because of age and illness than falling into accident of being killed by predators. Due to some of morphological hindrance it’s very difficult for an older lion incapable of hunting to see a carcass of an antelope laying in the middle of savannah full of bushes, trees and ground with wrinkles, this is like searching a needle on the floor of a darkroom although every day there is at least a single dead body of a mammal within an area of 100 square miles. This is an easy task to a Vulture who is equipped with Telephoto Vision System which enables them to pin point a dead body from the sky even at thousand miles, the system work in their eyes like a camera whereby an object is photographed and an image is sent to the brain for scrutiny and action, this ability gives vulture an upper hand against ground dwelling scavenger such as hyena, jackal and old lions which depend mainly on their nose to sniff. There are some insects which have super eyes which work through unique system, dragonfly’s eyes are equipped with selective attention mechanism which means they are able to skip useless visual info and concentrate on the targeted prey. This account will not be well detailed if the praying mantis is not included, this smart insect has a body that is divided into three major parts which are abdomen, thorax and a very small triangular head which is equipped with very big and sharp eyes with a visual range of 20 meters due to their 10,000 small eyes on each side which provide a perfect vision of a wide area through a Binocular vision that is enabled by a black spot on each eye. rstanslaus@yahoo.com