TWO teachers from Holy Cross Nursery and Primary School Leahdorise Agunda and Martha Laizer appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam charged with murder. The two accused persons, according to the prosecution, are alleged to have killed Cuthbert Chacha, who is believed to be a pupil at the school after caning her. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Yusto Kaboroga, the two accused persons were not allowed to enter any plea to the charge because their case would be tried by the High Court of Tanzania. It was alleged by the prosecution, led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, that the accused persons committed the offence on September 14, 2020 at the school situated in Kijichi in Temeke District, Dar es Salaam City. Corporal punishment is a discipline method in which a supervising adult deliberately inflicts pain on a child in response to a child’s unacceptable behaviour and, or inappropriate language. The aim of such punishment is usually to halt the offence, prevent its recurrence and set an example for others. The goal is to change the child’s behaviour and to make it more consistent with adult’s expectations. In corporal punishment, the adult usually hits various parts of the child’s body with a hand, or with canes, paddles, yardsticks, belts, or other objects expected to cause pain and fear. Globally, the use of corporal punishment in schools is increasingly prohibited in law, yet in many contexts its use continues, even where it is outlawed. Proponents of this punishment argue that it is an effective and non-harmful means of instilling discipline, respect and obedience in children, while others say there are detrimental effects of such punishment, including poor academic performance, low class participation, school dropout and declining psychosocial well-being. Establishing whether corporal punishment has lasting effects on children’s cognitive development and psychosocial well-being has been hampered by lack of longitudinal data, especially from low- and middle-income countries. Corporal punishment is lawful in schools in Mainland Tanzania under the National Corporal Punishment Regulations, 1979 pursuant to Section 60 of the National Education Act, 1978, which authorises the minister to make regulations “to provide for and control the administration of corporal punishment in schools.” Government guidelines in 2000 reduced the number of strokes from six to four and stated that only school heads are allowed to administer the punishment, with penalties for teachers who flout these regulations. However incidents of teachers who defy the regulations are rife and mostly go unreported.