THE High Court of Tanzania -Sumbawanga Zone Judge in Charge, David Mrango has warned court magistrates and staff in Katavi and Rukwa regions to refrain from behaviours of soliciting and receiving bribes from citizens. Justice Mrango also directed them to abstain from trading inappropriate language while serving their clients and stakeholders who happen to be wananchi. He insisted that the High Court will not hesitate to take into task any magistrate or staff who will be found to have been engaging in corruption practices and trading inappropriate language against their clients. Justice Mrango issued the warning yesterday during the official launch of new court premises which will serve as Laela Primary Court and Sumbawanga District Court. The colourful occasion was held at Laela township in Sumbawanga District Council, Rukwa Region. "I'm calling upon all civil leaders to ensure that court staff are providing best services to wananchi, which reflect the beauty and splendor of the newly built court, we should abstain from trading inappropriate language to our clients and stakeholders who are citizens ..... Likewise, we must refrain from indulging ourselves in bribes." Court authority will not hesitate to punish any magistrate or staff who will engage in bribery activities," he warned. Equally, Justice Mrango called on all district commissioners of Nkasi, Kalambo and Sumbawanga through Magistrate Ethic Committees to educate the public on how they can report their grievances related to unethical behaviours of some court officials. Meanwhile, Justice Mringo said the project of the newly built court at Laela township at a cost of 493,026,951/- was the result of High Court of Tanzania Five Year Strategic Plan from 2015/16 to 2019/2020 Financial Years (FY). "During the 2018/19 financial year, Rukwa region was given three projects of constructing primary courts at Msanzi (Kalambo), Mtowisa along the Lake Rukwa Rift Valley Basin and Laela township (Sumbawanga), all buildings have been officially launched," he added. For his part, Rukwa Region Tanzania Buildings Agency (TBA) acting Manager, Engineer Mohamed Mhando said the construction work of the project has been completed by 100 per cent, adding that the building was handed over to the High Court of Tanzania on October 02 this year.