IN 1961, John F. Kennedy’s inaugural address as the President of America inspired children and adults to see the importance of civic action and public service. His historic words, “Ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your country,” challenged the nationals to contribute in some way to the public good. This brought home after the elections, Tanzanians should start thinking seriously of the themes cited in the campaigns especially in the realms of economic prosperity, emerging social changes, and diplomatic challenges of how to support the party that forms the government (CCM) realise the goals. After the political campaigns and finally a leader at the Presidential level identified, Members of Parliament representing constituencies and Councillors for Wards known, every citizen should ask: What is my role in nation building? Here the term - national building or national development, is usually used to refer to a constructive process of engaging all citizens in building social cohesion, economic prosperity and political stability in a nation in an inclusive and democratic way. Ask yourself if this time you will be paying taxes on time without being reminded or pushed, because the taxes you pay will support the government its objectives such as building roads, schools, better government salaries and improve government services. These factors can help attracting more investors in the country. The money you pay in taxes goes to many places. In addition to paying the salaries of government workers, your tax also help to support common resources, such as police and firefighters. Tax money helps to ensure the roads you travel on are safe and well-maintained. Ask yourself: How do I show patriotism in my country? This is because patriotism brings people together. It is a sense of solidarity and love for our country and a sentiment which binds. It is a shared feeling and common goal to do what’s best for the nation as a whole and be supportive throughout this quest. Equally, ask yourself: How do I fight crime especially corruption that eats into the very veins of development? This is because corruption damages the country’s reputation and has created obstacles to local and foreign direct investment, flows to the stock market, global competitiveness, economic growth and ultimately distorts the development and attainment of our goals. Corruption is a cancer of any society and it must not necessarily be about the exchange of money, it could be in kind. A truly corrupt society can never be classed as democratic.