SIMBA defender Joash Onyango said he is not troubled at all with the nickname ‘Babu’ given to him by some fraction of sport fans in the country. The Kenyan international navigated his side to safety after heading home a late equaliser to make the season’s first explosive traditional derby clash end 1-1 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. It was his first goal in the unfolding Premier League games since landing in the country early this season and he has been among regular starters for the defending champions as they want to retain the title for fourth consecutive time. But, speaking after the game, Onyango hailed his coach Sven Vandenbroeck for trusting him to play in his first traditional derby match while insisting that he was happy to score on the day. “I never expected that I can play in this game that is why I am grateful to the coach for giving me this opportunity to be part of the team. “Generally, it was a difficult match and both teams played very well to fit the derby accord but much thanks should go to my teammates for fighting hard to get the equalising goal which is enough for us,” he said. He however elaborated that earning a draw was not what they wanted as their priority was to win and pocket maximum three points hence bagging one point was not that bad thing at all. About the nickname ‘Babu’, Onyango insisted that he is not ashamed at all with the name and they can name him whatever they want. “I think they have seen what Babu can do that is why I am always happy to be here,” said Onyango who partnered with Pascal Wawa to form the central defence for Simba. On the other hand, Yanga’s right back Kibwana Shomari who also had a sparkling match on the day revealed that the secret behind his brilliant form was to keep in practice the lessons imparted to them by their coach. “Our target was to bag in all three points but for God’s grace, we have managed only one point which is not bad at all,” said him after doing a great job to silence creative players like Clatous Chama and Louis Miquissone.