TANZANIA recruitment firm, Brighter Monday, has launched an online Curriculum Vitae (CV) writing and reviewing platform to assist job seekers better market themselves. Brighter Monday Tanzania CEO, Ms Reshma Bharmal-Shariff said in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday that writing a standout CV is not just about including the right information; it is also about how you present it. “Unfortunately, though, this is where many job seekers slip up. Most of the job seekers in Tanzania are not aware that different CV formats apply for different career situations, as a result, they often end up using the wrong format entirely or, worse, randomly throwing bits of information together without following a clear, logical layout,” she said. Ms Bharmal-Shariff said they have decided to launch the platform to bridge the gap in a highly competitive job market. “We have frequently observed weaknesses that can seriously hinder their (job seekers) chances of landing an interview as well as a job, that is where this helpful platform to guide them comes in,” said Ms Bharmal-Shariff. The recruitment firm estimates that three-quarter of job seekers cannot write a CV that meets professional standards. The firm believes that the CV writing service will help job seekers improve necessary skills for them to meet standard job market requirements and maximize chances of landing right jobs. She said being a matchmaker between employers and job seekers, they receive complaints from both sides. Job seekers complain of missing out opportunities to make it through to employers, while companies are not happy with the quality of CVs they receive. “Sometimes we receive calls or negative comments on social media - many from job seekers, accusing us of blocking them to employers, but when you go through their CVs, you cannot find what it takes for a job seeker to land an interview,” she said. She made a call to job seekers to consider subscribing to the platform because it could be a valuable solution to job seekers who are struggling to present their skills in a manner that could land them their dream jobs. A beneficiary of the service, Mr Emmanuel Albinus expressed gratitude to the firm for introducing the service in Tanzania, saying such service was mostly provided by foreign platforms.