PARTICIPANTS of the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon have been reminded to continue registering and confirm their participation online or through Tigo Pesa. The organisers said since there is an increase in number of participants since registration was opened a month ago, all wishing to run must register before the deadline. The event’s Director, John Bayo said participants are registering through www.kilimanjaromarathon.com or the Tanzanian residents can register through Tigopesa. In the statement, Bayo advised that numbers will be limited again across all 3 races (Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon (42km), Tigo Kili Half Marathon (21km) and Grand Malt 5km Fun Run to ensure the event sticks within the Official IAAF regulations of a safe carrying capacity. So potential participants must not delay, as it will be a case of first come, first serve and once entries run out, we will close registration! This according to Bayo, they will ensure runners enjoy their time out on route without being overcrowded, and abide by the COVID Social Distancing rules and so that the organisers can ensure they get all logistics in terms of the hydration and medical support needed on route and at the finish in line with the numbers expected. “We want all participants to register on time and ensure they pay as way of confirming their participation. This will help us to prepare well in advance and ensure all logistics are in place in good time,” he said. He noted that they will soon announce race number collection dates and venues and at the moment they should keep the confirmation messages they receive after payment. The Kilimanjaro Premium Lager and Grand Malt Manager, Irene Mutiganzi also re-emphasized on the exercise and called on participants of the 42 km race to complete the exercise on time as soon the entries will be full. “We are calling on participants to avoid last minute rush and complete their registration on time to give the organisers ample time to prepare,” she said. The Tigo Head of Marketing Services, William Mpinga said Tigo Pesa has made the registration process easy and fast however for those without Tigo lines can request their friends to register for them. Official sponsors for next year’s event include, Kilimanjaro Premium Lager (Main sponsor -42Km) , TIGO (21Km-Half Marathon), Grand Malt (5km –Fun Run), water table sponsors Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Limited, Simba Cement, Absa Bank Tanzania, Unilever - while the official suppliers are Keys Hotel, Garda World Security, Kibo Palace Hotel and CMC Automobiles.