THE madness will start all over again when giant clubs, Simba and Young Africans play their midweek assignments that will set the mood ahead of their Saturday’s Dar es Salaam derby. The reigning champions, Simba and traditional rivals, Young Africans are in their ‘final touch' matches before they clash in a much awaited match. The two giant clubs face a ‘must-win’ situation in their midweek assignments to keep chances of doing better in a much awaited duel. As the two sides are in preparations for their unpredictable assignments that draw attentions of millions of Tanzanians, Simba have moved towards touching distance of the Premier League summit, making a chase for the table leadership against Yanga and Azam FC. Simba, who had a winless run in two of their previous encounters to ruin Belgian’s Sven Vandenbroeck recond of five-match win, are back to their winning form, after demolishing Mwadui FC by 5-0 in their Saturday’s outing at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The win has revived Simba fans’ hopes of remaining in the contention for the league leadership, after earning 16 points to drop Biashara United to the fourth place with the same points, but Simba enjoy a big margin of goals. A sixth win in eight games in the Premier League edges Simba up to the third position after back to back defeat from Tanzania Prisons and Ruvu Shooting, but within six points of jointleaders Young Africans and Azam FC in the 9th round of the table. However, the six-point gap may be much bigger for the Msimbazi lads, considering to the fact that the ‘stiffness’ of the league make it unpredictable as anything can happen. “We have addressed our mistake and ready to go on and focus on other matches to come,” said Vandenbroeck. On the field, there were plenty of positives for Simba’s captain John Bocco, who scored twice, Hassan Dilunga, Ibrahim Ajib and Said Ndemla scored apiece to play their part in a first clean sheet after a frustration week of losing six crucial points in favour of rivals, Young Africans. Yanga, under tutelage of Burundian Cedric Kaze, who won nine crucial points in a row since he took charge of the team have struggled to chase league leaders, Azam from initial 13 points that they were sharing with Simba to squarely hit 22 with leaders Azam. Yanga celebrated for Azam FC’s 1-1 all draw with JKT Tanzania at their Chamazi home complex to share the spoil. "We played really well, "My players know their responsibility while in the struggled to score goals for the chances we created,” said Yanga’s Kaze. Kaze stay optimistic that under his reign, Yanga will do much better to win the title, which they eluded for years. Both Yanga and Simba officials are strengthening up their squad before they meet. Ahead of the derby, Simba have also revitalised their happiness after thrashing Mwadui as the club’s information officer, Haji Manara said that it was not possible for the reigning champions to lose three matches consecutively. Simba poor run in the two matches led criticism of the league performance, leading to the parting ways by mutual consent with goalkeeper’s coach, Muharami Mohamed and team manager, Patrick Rweyemamu. Before their derby meeting, the giant clubs will use the mid-week matches to charge their batteries to keep up ready for the muchawaited duel. Yanga will tomorrow play host Gwambina FC at Gwambina Complex as Biashara United will face KMC. Simba will on Wednesday play Kagera Sugar at Uhuru Stadium as Namungo FC will meet JKT, with Mwadui facing Ruvu Shooting in the same day. Azam FC will on the other hand, play host Dodoma Jiji at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma on Thursday