SOME six Tanzania students from the University of Dar es Salaam have emerged among the world’s best Huawei Information Communication and Technology Competition Global finals and taking top prizes at an awards ceremony organized in China online. Professor William Anangisye, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Dar es Salaam, hailed the students for their great victory and representing the institution in the academic realm. “I congratulate the students for the victory. This is a clear evidence of the academic excellence for the University of Dar es Salaam that grooms its students to be innovative in science and technology.
“The University values the cooperation with Huawei in bridging the ICT knowledge gap to our students, and I take this opportunity to strongly encourage all students to participate in the Huawei programmes,” said Prof. Anangisye. Tanzania was represented by 2 teams in the competition, where one won the second prize and the other scooped the third award. Those who won the second prize were named as Kelvin Hongo, Mpoki Abel and Henrey Kihanga. On the other hand, John Lazaro, Ahatus Biro, and Elisante Ekaro won the third prize as ICT students from the institution and putting the University’s name in the world map. Speaking on behalf of the students, Mr Hongo shared his experience with other competitors saying: “This journey with Huawei came with benefits such as professional certification in the fields of interest. It gave students an opportunity to learn skills which are recognized in the world of ICT. “Huawei provided us with a platform to experience and practice on new, innovative, and cutting-edge technology to grow and develop ourselves and the students’ achievement is due to African countries’ continuing to recognize efforts being built to improve ICT talent pool among the young generation, who will be an indispensable accelerator for the continent’s post-covid recovery and digitization.” The students progressed at the competition after an excellent performance in the Huawei Sub-Saharan Africa ICT Competition finals. In a broader sense, the Huawei ICT competition aims at providing a platform for global ICT talents to showcase their ability, compete and communicate, encouraging ICT-related studies, besides driving the growth of a robust ICT talent ecosystem. Despite being the newest contestants of the Huawei ICT Competition since 2017, Tanzanian students have made stunning progress this year from being finalists in 2019 to reaping second and third prizes in 2020. Over the past three years, Huawei has signed cooperation agreements with over 10 Universities in Tanzania on establishing Huawei ICT Academies that has enabled more than 600 students to obtain Huawei ICT Certification, which makes them better candidates for ICT-related jobs. Commenting, Global Vice President of Huawei Hou Tao noted the impressive performance of the students that is much needed for Africa’s digital inclusion in the era, where the gravity of workplace skills is already shifting online. “As a private company serving the African market for over 20 years, Huawei has dedicated itself to and will always remain a trusted partner of the government(s) and academia in building a competitive ICT talent pool and strengthening capacity building as well as increasing people’s digital competence,” pointed out Mr. Tao. This year’s Huawei ICT Competition attracted nearly 150,000 students from over 2,000 universities in over 82 countries, where 327 students from 39 countries participated in the online global final, making the scale the largest in all years.