A BOY from Mihuga village in Bagamoyo District, Coast Region, Awadhi Gaitani, alias Mboma, is to be detained at Pleasure of the President of the United Republic of Tanzania for killing a young girl, Ester Petro, under unspecified motives. To be detained at the President’s Pleasure according to legal affairs fall under section 26(2) of the Penal Code that allows a Magistrate to convict a minor, who is convicted of murder till the President would decide on his fate. This followed a decision given by the Court of Appeal to dismiss the appeal under which Gaitani, the appellant, had lodged to challenge the judgment given by the High Court after he was convicted of offence of murder. “…. we are in tandem with the trial court’s findings and find that the appellant was justly convicted with murder of the deceased as charged. In the end, we find that the appeal lacks merit and we proceed to dismiss it,” Justices Shaban Lila, Ferdinand Wambali and Winfrida Korosso ruled. During hearing of the appeal, the appellant had contended, among others, that the court had erred in relying on circumstantial evidence to convict him, and that the charge of murder he was facing during the trial was not proved to the required standard. In their judgment delivered recently, however, the justices of the appeals court took into consideration some chain of events that lead to irresistible inference, which point to the guilty of the appellant in committing the offence charged against him. Among the inferences include the appellant’s presence at the village, where the offence was committed, conditions leading to the deceased’s death, the question who killed the deceased, the conduct of the appellant before and after the incidence and the evidence of threats given by him prior to the killing. “All these facts without doubt lead to the motive for the killing. Therefore, taking into consideration all the above pieces of evidence, in our view what is illustrated is a chain of events which we find are so connected to lead to nothing else but inference that it the appellant who killed Esther Petro,” they said. The justices noted that the appellant had raised a defence of alibi, meaning that, he was not at the scene of crime, at the time the offence was committed. The appellant was arrested at Mandera village having left Mihuga village, where the offence was committed. They were aware that the appellant had no duty to establish his innocence, but having raised the defence of alibi, although no notice was given within the confines of section 194 (4) of Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), the justices exercise their discretion in re-evaluation of evidence given. “Our consideration of evidence in totality shows the alibi was nothing but an afterthought. The appellant alibi did not raise any doubt of (his) presence at the scene of crime on the fateful day, and soon after being seen, the deceased being found dead, is very cogent leaving no doubts,” they ruled. The allegations being that on March 29, 2012 around 11.30 hours at Mihuga village, within Bagamoyo District in Coast Region, the appellant murdered Ester Petro. After a full trial the appellant was convicted and sentenced to be detained at the President’s Pleasure on such condition(s) to be directed by the Minister responsible for legal affairs under section 26(2) of the Penal Code. Such provision reads, “Sentence of death shall not be pronounced on or recorded against any person who, in the opinion of the court, is under eighteen years of age, but in-lieu thereof the court shall sentence such person to be detained during the President’s pleasure… “…… and if so sentenced he shall be liable to be detained in such place and under such conditions as the Minister for the time being responsible for legal affairs may direct, and whilst so detained shall be deemed to be in legal custody.” On March 29, 2012, the deceased who was ten years old at the time, was left alone at home while her parents went to their “shamba”. The other children had also left to attend to other matters including school and herding cattle. While the deceased was alone at home, it is alleged that the appellant arrived at the house and killed the deceased by stabbing her on the neck about five times. According to the evidence given by a neighbour of the deceased’s parents, while outside her house during the morning hours, she saw the appellant going to and entering the house and a while later saw him leaving and taking the same route he took while entering the house, where the deceased was. The neighbour stated that a little bit later, she heard people crying and then saw some rushing to the house forcing her follow suit to see what it was. The deceased younger sister went to inform her parents that Ester Petro was injured and laying down with blood oozing from her mouth and nose. Such parents rushed back to the house and en route they managed to inform the village chairman of the incident. The chairman proceeded to inform the village executive officer and thereafter the incidence was reported to the police, who then came with a doctor to the scene of the crime. The appellant was traced but was not found in the village and later he was arrested in a nearby village and then arraigned facing the charge, for which he was convicted and sentenced.