GLOBALLY farmers play a major role in society; they feed us, some of them warm us and all are custodians of the landscape and nature. Their responsibilities and commitments go way beyond their farms, crops and livestock; many are passionate “Agvocates” playing vital roles in their communities and society. Acknowledging this, it is hats off the Chinese government and its people to have seen the essence of continuing to open their markets for cassava products from Tanzania, as was reported in our Sunday Newspaper, yesterday. The piece highlighted how a company from the country has expressed interest to purchase one million tonnes of cassava from Tanzania starting this season, and this not only raises hopes of local farmers to increase production, but also shows that such crop, though might be taken as an ordinary foodstuff in our midst, but has a priority in the meals of others. Many might not know the health benefits of cassava as being a calorie- rich vegetable that contains plenty of carbohydrates and key vitamins and minerals; it is also a good source of vitamin C, thiamine, riboflavin, and niacin. On the breath, health experts advise that incorporating cassava into a controlled healthy diet menu has turned out to have many positive effects on health including being rich in dietary fiber and the right choice if you can’t wait to lose weight. Cassava can make you feel full for a longer period of time. Thus, reducing the need to constantly snack on food so as to suppress weight gain let alone helping reduce constant migraine attacks. The list may be long to encourage our farmers to increase production, but what requires immediate address also is the postharvest losses of the crop in the farmers. We are told that following this rising cassava demand in the lucrative Chinese market, the government intends to scale up cassava production from the current eight tonnes to at least 16 tonnes per hectare through adoption of improved technology. Right! But, how are our farmers being assisted to collect, use and minimise postharvest losses, which are left to decay in the farms? The Chinese company - Holley International Chairperson, Ms Show Shen expressed interest when she met with Tanzania’s Ambassador to China, Mr Mbelwa Kairuki at Hangzhou, the capital of China’s Zhejiang province. And in the arrangement, the envoy said that the company has agreed to purchase cassava chips (dried) with required quality specification, such as being free from mould and any foreign matters. In a nutshell, this is the kind of relations Tanzanians want their ambassadors to spearhead abroad.