THE High Court has dismissed the constitutional petition lodged by four prisoners to challenge the constitutionality of section 4(b) of the Parole Boards Act, which excludes inmates serving long sentences of more than four years from parole. Judges Benhajj Masoud, Augustine Rwizile and Edwin Kakolaki ruled against Sadique Bwanga, Jibu Amiry, alias Mussa, Salum Mparakasi, Kadiria Kimaro, who were petitioners, after holding that the provision complained  does not contravene the Constitution of United Republic of Tanzania. “It is therefore clear to us that the impugned provision aims at protection of the society, from persons who by operation of law have been found guilty of heinous offences. Section 4(b) of the Parole Boards Act is therefore not violative of the constitution,” they declared. In their petition, the petitioners had stated that the provision of section 4(b) of the Parole Boards Act is unconstitutional, because it discriminates them against other inmates on the basis of their sentences and denies them the right of appeal against their exclusion from the parole. They changed that such section is null and void for offending and violating the provisions of article 13(1), (2) and (6) (a) as well as Article 15 (2) of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, 1977 on the right of equality before the law and personal freedom. During hearing, the judges had to determine whether the provision of section 4(b) of the Parole Boards Act contravenes the right of equality under article 13(1), (2) and (6) of the Constitution, and the right to personal freedom under article 15(2) of the Constitution. They were also to determine whether the provision of section 4(b) of the Parole Boards Act passes the proportionality test and can be saved by the derogation clause under article 30(2) of the Constitution. In the judgment delivered recently, the judges were pointed out that the basic rights complained of are not absolute since derogation is allowed by the Constitution is within the scope of the exceptions state under article 15 (2) (a) and (b) of the Constitution. “We think so because, such exceptions are as prescribed by the wording of the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) which is permissive in the sense that it is in accordance with circumstances and procedures prescribed by law and are in pursuance of execution of a sentence given by the court,” they said. Referring under Article 13 (5) (6) of the Constitution, the judged said that they were bound to think that Parole by its very meaning is partly a judicial process and it could be denied in two ways, including by operation of the law as provided under the impugned section and if it is prevented by the court when passing a sentence under section 167 (3) of Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). “In all cases therefore, parole is done after due process of the law. It follows therefore that Parole is not an automatic right. It is subject to the sentencing jurisdiction of the court in one way. The same therefore is embodied in the whole process of sentencing,” they said.  The judges pointed out that the named offences under the impugned provisions are serious offences necessitating denial of parole which is an effort in ensuring maintenance of peace and order to the community whose rights are fundamental and must be protected. According to them, it is because of the coexistence between the basic rights of the individual and the collective rights of the society and it was their view that it is common to find limitations to individual liberties. “The harmony between the two is what the Constitution attempts to do, by striking the balance between individual liberty and social control. This is envisaged by Article 30 (2) of the Constitution which subjects the individual rights to restraint for the sake of public good and, moral of the community,” they said. Facts that gave raise to this petition emanate from different cases and the tale behind came from the prison where petitioners were inmates. It occurred that the petitioners were charged, convicted and sentenced to long term imprisonment. Bwanga and Amiry were sentenced to 30 years imprisonment after conviction of armed robbery, while Mparakasi and Kimaro were sentenced to 25 years and 20 years imprisonment, respectively and were as well ordered to pay some fines. This was after conviction upon being found guilty of illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs. Bwanga, however, has been acquitted by the Court of Appeal, but he decided to proceed with the hearing of the petition because it was of public interest. According to their respective affidavits in support of the petition, each has served a chunk of his sentence and has been of good behaviour as to qualify for parole. Unfortunately, the petitioners are not subject to parole due to a legal huddle brought about by section 4(b) of the Parole Boards Act.