THE Business Dictionary defines the core of business of an entity as “The primary area or activity that a company was founded on or focuses on in its business operations. Many market leaders aim to maintain a strong position in their core business areas, but they usually remain open to developing new areas of activity as perceived business opportunities arise.” This interpretation is broadly true, however; the interdependency between people and businesses shoulders more value on the human element. Business cannot function without people, and people need businesses. Therefore, one can say that the human element is the core of any business, as any business needs people as owner managers, employees, and consumers, people need business for the production of goods and services and the creation of jobs. Hilda Bujiku wears many hats at Vodacom Tanzania PLC. She is the Managing Executive in Charge of financial planning and Analysis, Investor relations and Company Secretariat. She holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from The University of Dar es salaam and is a certified Public Accountant. She is an experienced strategic business partner with a history of establishing cross-function partnership/teams to deliver results using keen analysis, insights and team approach to shape decisions and implementation of best practices. Hilda attributes her success strengths today to an ingredient of attitude, focus and good old-fashioned hard work. Commenting on how she manages her department and what her management style is, Hilda says that key to success at the office is teamwork and open-mindedness. “I am lucky to have a brilliant and hardworking team around me who are committed, opened - minded and ready to challenge the status quo. These attributes are the foundation of our success and the basis of getting things done,” she says. Some people say ‘we are who we are because of where we came from’. Largely this is true. From her early childhood, Hilda says she was industrious, focused and developed an attitude of selfdetermination. “Raising the standard and constantly challenging yourself will take you places. Breaking barriers and having an ambition is important in order to focus on achieving goals. I gained the spirit of industry and selfconfidence at an early age when I was engaged in home business while at school to support the family.” “Experience from my work as an auditor and later in investment in the telecommunication industry have given me invaluable insights and knowhow in finance, compliance and the overall depth in telecommunication industry,” she says. She adds that she also had the opportunity of working for Vodacom in Lesotho as Finance Director for two and a half years and gained invaluable experience in understanding norms and how to address some challenges in a constructive manner, saying she is proud of her achievements and reaching her business targets and increasing value for shareholders during this time. On advice to young people on what they need in order to succeed in the field of investor relation, Hilda says that developing a habit of continuous learning will increase understanding of the field you are into and give you confidence in performing. “The profile of your skills set is what will shape you. Clarity in communication and messaging is important. Understanding the business is crucial, and in finance, understanding and interpreting the numbers is crucial. Sharp presentation skills that deliver clear messaging and good knowledge of regulations and laws for compliance purposes are also important,” she says. Commenting on the listing of Vodacom Tanzania PLC on the Dar es Salaam stock exchange and what it meant for the company and the public, Hilda explains what this meant in terms of shareholding structure and outlined the benefits it brings. “I am proud to be part of a company that is listed in the Dar es Salaam stock exchange since 2017. This means that the public owns 25 percent of our share value. This cements our local DNA. To date, Vodacom Tanzania is the only mobile operator to comply with Tanzania's Electronic and Postal Communications Act, requiring domestic telecoms companies to issue at least 25 per cent of their shares on the Dar es Salaam Stock Market. This saw more than 40,000 Tanzanians becoming owners of the telecom giant and continue to enjoy the share of profit. The listing also provides transparency and enhances compliance both in terms of business practices and tax obligations,” she says. According to scholars, busy schedules mixed with restorative rest regimes can result in increased productivity. Notwithstanding Hilda’s busy weekly schedule, she says she finds time to do what she loves when not analyzing charts and crunching numbers. “I am a big fan of sports. I watch football, tennis, and formula 1. I also work out a lot and love music as well as shopping. I recently took an interest in watching movies.”