IT is possible to minimise to a considerable extent, if not to end, fatal road crashes, which leave millions of people globally traumatised. As we light candles to commemorate World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims (WDoR) today, it is imperative to be reminded that we have to respond to this global call as we take action at local level. This year’s theme is “First Responders”, recognising the selfless men and women who rescue, care for and support victims of road trauma. Such exposure on a daily basis takes an inevitable toll on these brave heroes, who need, but do not often get, the full support of society, according to World Health Organisation (WHO). This is according to government and nongovernmental stakeholders, individuals, schools and particularly the mass media which is in a better position to pass on this message to members of the public. In Tanzania, the deadly crashes have continued taking place, amidst traffic police efforts to bring down the cumulative curve every year. Recently, former Minister for Home Affairs George Simbachawene said, statistics on road crashes showed there were 2,701 crashes in 2019 alone and most of them occurred due to reckless driving, drunk driving and defective vehicles. According to him, other road users such as careless pedestrians, motorcyclists and bicyclists also are causes of road accidents. “Law enforcers don’t have time to relax while people are killed or injured in road crashes. There is a need for more efforts by the traffic police department and other stakeholders,” the former minister said during a road safety conference in Dodoma hardly six months ago. Surveys show that children and youth adults are more at risk when it comes to road crashes. This is not only in Tanzania, but also in other parts of the world, according to WHO. Civil society organisations (CSOs) advocate initiatives to curb deadly crashes and save the lives of survivors. They emphasise a review of the Road Traffic Act No 30 of 1973 to address five risk factors more efficiently and effectively. Stakeholders reviewing the law should fix the minimum and maximum speed of 30km and 50km per hour in crowded and residential areas respectively which is manageable in case of an emergency. Other issues raised during a press briefing to remember crash victims marked every third Sunday of November each year (on November 15) were to highlight prevalent causes of road crashes. CSO activists said driving under the influence of alcohol distracted the driver which in turn risked the safety of the driver him or herself and other road users. “We appeal for the amendments of Section 51(8) to enforce a mandatory maximum speed of 50km per hour urban and residential areas. The 30km per hour speed limit in areas where there are schools, markets and other places with interaction of a large number of people,” said Ms Rose Ruben, Executive Director of Tanzania Media Women’s Association (Tamwa). Moreover, Ms Ruben called for the envisaged legal review which should be presented before the next parliamentary sitting that it should state clearly which areas could be classified as residential areas. The coalition of CSOs also called for the law to ban the use of mobile phones while driving and that blood alcohol concentration (BAC) levels should meet standards stipulated in WHO guidelines such as 0.04g/dl. Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) Programme Officer Mercy Kessy said TLS recommended that enforcement and penalties against road traffic offences should be amended to not only punish, but also to deter drivers from violating traffic rules and regulations. She said TLS also recommended that the Road Traffic Act should have provisions to address distracted driving, especially the use of mobile phones, which was increasingly emerging as one of the risk factors. Pillar Three of the UN Decade of Action on road safety 2011-2020 advocates a need for improved vehicle safety by encouraging harmonisation of relevant global standards and mechanisms to accelerate the uptake of new technologies which impact on safety. It includes activities such as implementing new car assessment programmes so that consumers are aware of the safety performance of vehicles and ensure all new motor vehicles are equipped with minimum safety features, such as seat belts. Other activities covered include promoting more widespread use of crash avoidance technologies with proven effectiveness, such as electronic stability control. Road crashes victims are also said to be gender sensitive, as women carry the heaviest burden in taking care for the sick. A number of them turns into single parents, as husbands are killed in road crashes and statistically their number is higher than that of women, according to Ms Mary Richard, Programme Officer of Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (Tawla). With all this, there is new hope as the country’s top leader has put the drivers’ fate as part of his agenda. In his speech to inaugurate the new Parliament this week, President John Magufuli promised that his government would look into the best way of dealing with their benefits. “It is the right time for the National Assembly Speaker and his Deputy to hire female drivers. Their benefits are to be revisited and we need to make laws which will protect the drivers’ welfare,” he said. This is a good starting point as one of the reasons for common deadly crashes includes fatigue and frustration among drivers who mostly work longer than recommended. According to the UN, WDoR was started by RoadPeace in 1993. Since then it has been observed and promoted worldwide by several nongovernmental organisation (NGOs), including the European Federation of Road Traffic Victims (FEVR) and its associated organisations. On October 26, 2005, the United Nations endorsed it as a global day to be observed every third Sunday in November each year, making it a major advocacy day for road traffic injury prevention. WHO and the United Nations Road Safety Collaboration encourage governments and NGOs across the world to commemorate this day.