MOROGORO Ladies Open has come back to life after remaining inactive for many years. It is a usual amateur stroke-play event that draws top ladies golfers at Morogoro Gymkhana Club course. The annual tournament went dull in recent past years due to different reasons and the Tanzania Ladies Golf Union’s Vice President Anita Siwale confirmed on Saturday that the event will be back next weekend. Siwale, who also serves as Morogoro Gymkhana Ladies captain, said that the comeback has been supported by the Morogoro-based firm, Vacuna Limited, who bankrolled it. The tournament has not been staged for over six years since it was last held there in 2014. Delighted with the comeback, Siwale said preparation for the tournament is on a top gear and has assured golfers of a wonderful hospitality as it is the only course that gives players different experience. She said the club has extended invitation to men and ladies’ golfers from across the country insisting the door is open to every golfer. Morogoro is only remaining brown course in the country; this gives golfers something special at rounds and different test too. “I want to encourage those who are yet to test the brown course to come and compete here, we would like to see golfers to come here in a big number,” she said. Siwale added that Morogoro Ladies Open will be played in two days covering 36 holes. According to her, ladies will battle it out in stroke-play gross basis while subsidiary men’s Division will be net battle also covering 36 holes. They also invite juniors who will compete at 18 holes and 9 holes for Under 10 juniors. According to Siwale tournament is not short of prizes, the championship category will have overall gross winner, runner up and the second runner up. The winners’ list also has are silver net winner, overall silver net winner and runners up. Bronze net winner, bronze net runners up, bronze net day one and day two, senior ladies net and runners up and junior winner and the runner up. According to Siwale, maximum handicap set to for tournament is 36, while men should not play off over 24 handicap.