PRINCIPAL Judge, Dr Eliezer Feleshi, has appealed to members of the public to support the Judiciary of Tanzania in its efforts to dispense justice by filing cases and turning up in court to testify on time if they happen to be eyewitnesses. Speaking after a farewell ceremony for nine retired Judges of the High Court of Tanzania held in Dar es Salaam on Friday, Dr Feleshi expressed his concern over lack of cooperation between the judiciary and members of the public in the dispensation of justice. “The Judiciary of Tanzania is well organised nowadays. Initially, we were being blamed for delaying cases, but the ball is now rolling towards citizens. We need cooperation from the people to achieve our goals,” the principal judge appealed. According to him, there has been a big challenge for members of the public to delay cases either by delaying in giving evidence or abandoning cases, a situation that hinders timely dispensation of justice process. In addition, the principal judge urged the people to continue using existing judicial systems, including the Judiciary Statistical Dashboard System (JSDS), a web application platform for case registration and administration and others to enable them access justice on time. “The Tanzanian judiciary is well-positioned to continue with various improvements, all aimed at improving the dispensation of justice and enable the people to grow economically and prosper in the nation,” Dr Feleshi said. One of the retired High Court Judges, Dr Fauz Twaib, asked the judges in service and other judicial officers to continue serving the people diligently. Another retired Judge Hamis Kalombola said before retiring preference was to dispose of cases, notably those relating to family matters through mediation to bring true reconciliation among the people in society. “I love families. So, among the cases I preferred to handle were those involving children and families in general. I preferred a mediation procedure so that true reconciliation could be reached between two parties without resentment,” said retired Judge Kalombola. Among the retired judges, who attended the ceremony, apart from Dr Twaib and Kalombora included Sekieti Kihiyo, Pellagia Khaday, Awadhi Bawazir, Sirilius Matupa, Julius Mallaba and Sophia Wambura. A farewell ceremony was also held for Judge Upendo Msuya, who is dead. At a similar event held last year, the principal judge explained that the Judiciary of Tanzania would continue using retired judges in its various activities in the country to enable them to benefit from their experience. Dr Feleshi said the Tanzanian Judiciary worked closely with retired judges, involving them in various court activities, including in training. “The Judiciary of Tanzania is working closely with the retired judges. We cooperate well with them on various issues, including training, where we use them to present various topics based on their experience,” said the principal judge. He said so far there were more than 70 retired judges, so the Judiciary would continue using them in collaboration with in service judges in a number of activities through the Retired Judges Association. The principal judge also pointed out that the main purpose of such events was to remind the serving judges of the importance of working with integrity and efficiency so that they could complete their term of office successfully.