NMB bank has launched a reward campaign dubbed ‘MastaBata Sio Kikawaida’ that will see customers win cash, smart phones, fridges, flat screens, microwaves and a holiday trip to a destination of their choice in Zanzibar, Ngorongoro, or Serengeti. More than 200 m/- in prizes will be won in the promotion aimed at encouraging and motivating customers to use NMB MasterCard when paying for goods or services through Point of Sales (POS), QR Code or Internet purchase commonly known as E-commerce. NMB customers paying using NMB mastercard QR also form part of this rewarding programme. Over three million NMB cardholders and customers will stand a chance to win different prizes, with the grand prize of a fully paid 3 days’ trip for two to Serengeti, Ngorongoro and Zanzibar. Speaking at the launch in Dar es Salaam, the NMB Bank’s Chief Retail Banking – Filbert Mponzi said the promotion is a way of rewarding customers who have transformed together with the bank through its digital journey to forming a cashless society. According to Mr. Mponzi, the promotion will have weekly and monthly draws, with the grand prize being a trip to a destination of their choice or a gift menu that contains various prizes. This is exclusive to existing and new NMB customers. Mr. Mponzi said “as we end the year, we want to reward our customers who are key partners to our journey to build a cashless society. Usage of cash is not only expensive for individuals and the government, but also risky, let us all use our cards to pay for our end of the year holiday shopping and on our daily purchases.” “We are grateful to our customers for their continued support over time. It is through their support that NMB has managed to come this far. This promotion aims at rewarding them for their loyalty, and it is an incentive to our new customers for choosing NMB as their Bank of choice,” noted the bank’s Chief Retailer. In the three months of the promotion, there will be weekly draws that will see 40 lucky winners every week walk away with TZS 100,000/- each, monthly winners where 12 lucky customers will be walking away with brand new Samsung Galaxy Note 20 phones. The grand finale will witness 12 customers win an all-inclusive trip for two to either Serengeti, Ngorongoro or Zanzibar. Winners of the trip can choose to be accompanied by their spouses or friends, and the trips will be fully paid by NMB bank for 3 days stay in a five-star hotel. The same winners’ will also be given an option of deciding between the Safari or a range of prizes, from smart TV set to fridges. NMB Bank is the first bank in Tanzania to issue a secured EMV (Chip and Pin) MasterCard with contactless technology and pioneered the largest roll out of contactless MasterCard payment cards in Tanzania to date. Contactless technology allows consumers to make fast, secure and more convenient payments, and is ideal for quick payment environments where speed and convenience matter most, such as taxis, buses, major retailers, grocery stores and fuel stations.