WHILE President elect Dr John Magufuli is expected be sworn -in on November 5 in Dodoma City, congratulatory messages have started trickling in, saluting him for winning the General Election held on Wednesday this week. According to CCM Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally, the swearing in celebrations are expected to be held at Jamhuri Stadium next Thursday, urging Tanzanians of all walks of life to turn up in large numbers to attend the important and historic event. During his first term, President Magufuli won accolades around the world for his exemplary performance, catapulting the country’s economy from poor state to middle-income level. “Tomorrow (today), I will lead CCM delegation to an important brief function at the headquarters of the National Electoral Commission where Dr Magufuli will receive his certificate of election,” Dr Bashiru said. According to the party’s top technocrat, Vice President-elect Samia Suluhu Hassan, CCM Central Committee (CC) members, members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) and representatives of Dodoma CCM regional members will be in attendance. Dr Bashiru also noted that Zanzibar president - elect Dr Hussein Mwinyi will be sworn in tomorrow to lead the isles for the next five years. "Dr Mwinyi will be sworn in on Monday (tomorrow) at  Amani Stadium in Zanzibar; Dr Magufuli will also attend the ceremony people will be allowed into the stadium from 6am. We call upon Tanzanians to turn up in large numbers to witness the event,” he said. Meanwhile, the landslide victory by CCM in this year’s General Election has been described as people’s choice. Dr Bashiru said the victory by CCM in the presidential, parliamentary and chancellorship seats is a reflection of people’s choice and trust on both candidates in Mainland and Zanzibar. Meanwhile, leaders in the world have started issuing messages of congratulations to Dr Magufuli for winning the election. From the election, Dr Magufuli who was the CCM presidential candidate fetched 84 per cent of all votes, outshining 14 other candidates. In one of the messages, China has expressed its optimism that under the leadership of Dr Magufuli, Tanzania will make greater progress in national development. “We look forward to enhancing cooperation with the new Tanzanian government to bring bilateral relations to a new height,” said Mr Wang Wenbin, the Spokesperson of China’s Foreign Affairs Ministry of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta said Dr Magufuli’s re-election demonstrates the deep love, confidence and trust the people of Tanzania have in his leadership. “Your re-election is a demonstration of the love, respect and admiration Tanzanians have for you and your administration, and is an endorsement of your plans for the future prosperity of your country,” he said. He added; “We in Kenya look forward to continuing working with your administration for the benefit of the people of our two nations, for the prosperity of East Africa and for the peace, stability and growth of the African continent”. Going forward, Mr Kenyatta assured his Tanzanian counterpart of Kenya’s support and commitment to continue partnering with his second term in pursuit of mutually beneficial objectives. For his part, the President of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni said that his country was looking forward to working more closely with Tanzania. “Congratulations to His Excellency Magufuli and Chama Cha Mapinduzi Party on the resounding victory in the just-concluded elections, Uganda looks forward to working even more closely with you and the people of Tanzania to deepen our social, economic and political ties. Hongera!,” said president Museveni on his twitter account. On Friday, the East African Community (EAC) Election Observation Mission to Tanzania’s 2020 General Election said that the process was conducted in a credible manner and in a peaceful environment. The Head of Mission, who is also former President of Burundi, Mr Sylvestre Ntibantunganya, commended Tanzanians for their commitment and the wisdom they have demonstrated during the election period, particularly in safeguarding the country’s peace and security. “Peace and security are prerequisites for a peaceful and credible electoral process, I call on the people of Tanzania, and all candidates, to move ahead in the next steps of the process peacefully,” said Ntibantunganya as he released the Mission’s preliminary statement. According to him, the mission which comprised 59 observers, arrived in the country on October 21 and deployed on October 26, 2020 to observe the final stages of campaigns, polling preparations and election day proceedings. Electoral Institute for Sustainable Democracy in Africa (EISA) Election Observation Mission said that the polling station environment was reported as orderly and most peaceful, and security personnel were present at all stations and their presence was mostly professional and discreet.  