THE Court of Appeal has sentenced Dar es Salaam based shoemaker and water seller Paul Dioniz to life imprisonment for raping an eight-year-old schoolgirl in a semi-finished house (pagala) after luring her with 100/-. Justices Rehema Mkuye, Ferdinand Wambali and Ignus Kitusi reached such a decision after dismissing the appeal under which Dioniz, the appellant, had lodged to challenge findings of both the trial and the High Court. They reversed the 30- year jail term imposed on the appellant by the trial district court and subsequently upheld by the High Court, the first appellate court, after noting that the victim of rape was aged below 10 years old. “Hence, in terms of Section 4(2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act, we revise the sentence from 30 years’ imprisonment to life imprisonment. Consequently, we find the appeal devoid of merit and we hereby dismiss it in its entirety,” the justices declared. During hearing of the appeal, the prosecution told the court that the sentence imposed against the appellant was illegal and implored us to enhance it to life imprisonment. For his part, the appellant urged the Court to do justice. In their judgment delivered recently, however, the justices of the appellate court agreed with the prosecution that the sentence of 30 years for the offence of rape to a child aged 8 years was not proper. “Section 131(2) of the Penal Code is quite settled in that it imposes the sentence of life imprisonment for a person who is convicted of an offence of rape (statutory) specifically when the person to whom the offence is committed is below 10 years old,” they said. Thus, the justices said, it was not proper for the two courts below to maintain the sentence of 30 years’ imprisonment. In support of his appeal, the appellant contended, among others, that the case against him was not proved beyond a reasonable doubt to the required standard. He also complained that the charge against him was defective on the sense that there was the use of the word “carnal knowledge” while it was not stated in the enabling law and there was the omission of the word “unlawful” in the particulars of the offence. Regarding the complaint on the failure to prove the charge against the appellant, the justices went along with the prosecution in answering such a question in the affirmative. They noted that the victim had explained clearly how she knew the appellant by the name of Paul as a shoemaker and water seller in the area. According to them, the victim also explained how the appellant lured her by giving her 100/- to 200/- and some chips and raped her in an unfinished house (pagala) and she accounted on circumstances of the crime scene, which is the place where the appellant kept his equipment for his job of sewing shoes. “(The victim)’s evidence was corroborated by the appellant’s defence witness, whose office was adjacent to the appellant’s place where he used to sew shoes and that he was a water seller. Not only that (the victim) also mentioned him to her father and identified him in court,” they said. On the complaint of defective charge, the justices examined the charge sheet and acknowledged that, indeed, the word “carnal knowledge” was used in the particulars of the offence though it was not stated in the law. They also noted that the word “unlawful” was omitted in the particulars of offence. But the justices ruled that non-inclusion of the word “unlawful” did not make the charge defective. “This is so because such a word is immaterial in a charge of rape involving a child aged 8 years. As was rightly submitted by (prosecution), there is no lawful sexual intercourse to a child aged 8 years old,” they said. On August 6, 2016, the victim’s father saw his daughter to have urinated on her dress. When asking about the matter, his wife told him that it was the second time as she had earlier on noted the same and that the victim had recently been coming home late from school and sometimes she could not even take meals. The father reported the matter to the victim’s school teacher and during questioning she disclosed that the appellant gave her some money and chips. She also unveiled to the father that the appellant used to take her to the pagala and rape her. Thereafter, the matter was reported to the police and the appellant was arrested and the victim was taken to hospital for medical examination. After the appellant’s arraignment, the victim testified to have known the appellant, who was a shoemaker. The appellant, who was also a water seller, used to give the victim some 100/- to 200/- and directed her to go to the pagala where she was undressed and raped by him while threatening her not to disclose it to anybody for he would kill her. In defence, the appellant testified that he was arrested at his place of business where he makes shoes and taken to police custody without being told his offence. On September 2, 2016 he was arraigned before the District Court of Kinondoni for the offence of rape.