GOVERNMENT has challenged golfers to take advantage of the opportunities and make sure that they promote the sport to international levels. Abel Odena, a National Sports Council (NSC) officer said that during a Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) general election held over the weekend. The election held during the two days, Morogoro Ladies Open Golf Stroke Play Championship that took place at the Morogoro Gymkhana Club. Odena said golf like women’s soccer has bright future, urging the elected new leaders to work together as a team for the sport’s prosperity. He stressed that government is ready to support the sport as it has been the case for other sporting events. “Golfers you have to wake up, this is your time to shine, understand your value, leave differences and work together because you have all it takes to set records,” he noted. The election saw Sophia Viggo and Anita Siwale retaining their TLGU president and vice president posts, respectively. There were also new faces in the team as national team ace Madina Idd was elected new honorary secretary. Madina is also the All Africa Challenge Golf Trophy individual Champion, the title she won in Acra, Ghana in 2018 when Tanzania finished second. She will collaborate with others leaders for the best of the sport in the country. Her venturing into body’s leadership has come as a ‘new force’ as other leaders in the last term stepped down for Viggo and Siwale serving to the last. Others who also elected new office bearers are Zahara Zuberi who is treasurer and Sophia Mathias, elected as a competition secretary. All elected office bearers who will serve for two years were unopposed. They were all sworn in by NSC attorney Mashauri Charles. Viggo thanked members for re-electing her, saying it was not an easy task to lead the body as one is required to dedicate time and money to serve it. She also thanked Siwale for hard working during the first term of their leadership. During their tenure, Tanzania finished second at African level and crowned East and Central Africa Champions at Uganda 2018 event. She also extended her gratitude to the government and Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club for their tireless support towards their success.