RELIGIOUS leaders have urged Tanzanians to shun unlawful demonstrations called by opposition parties in protest of 2020 General Election results. They implored leaders and members of opposition parties to rethink their mission of staging unlawful demonstrations, saying it would breach the prevailing peace and stability. “Our advise to the political parties that were defeated in the October 28th, 2020 polls, is for them to go back to the drawing board and come up with strategies to win back the trust of Tanzanians,” urged Full Gospel Bible Fellowship Church (FGBF) Archbishop Zachary Kakobe. Archbishop Kakobe told journalists during a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday that there was no need for the opposition to stage mass protests because the election was smoothly organised and staged as Tanzanians voted peacefully. Bishop Kakobe warned against unlawfulness and pleaded with citizens to obey the country's laws, so that peace and tranquility prevail. “We urge Tanzanians not to take part in the protests scheduled for tomorrow (today); everyone should consider what is important for this nation, instead of participating in the mass protests. “It is not good for political leaders to put their members and followers into trouble because even the law enforcers have already warned that anyone who would attempt to stage illegal demonstrations would bear the consequences,” he said Archbishop Kakobe added, “There are people who may wonder why religious leaders should have something to talk about now… our job is a spiritual patrol, so we work in partnership with security organs, who carry out physical patrols to ensure that the nation is safe.” He argued that as is the norm for any competition there must be winners and losers, for which a line must be drawn for everyone to respect. “It is appalling that after the 2020 General Election results were announced, there have been several statements and ill feelings from the losers’ side, which, if left unabated it will breach the country’s peace,” he said. Expounding further Archbishop Kakobe said calling for mass protests simply means giving a simple answer to a difficult question. “This is the sixth election to be held in Tanzania since the restoration of the multi-party system in 1992 and after each election; we have grown to witness parties that lose the battle resort to organising illegal protests against the results. If there is rigging, it is best for political leaders to clearly come with evidence and find a solution by following legal procedures,” he said. On his part, WAPO Mission International Ministry Bishop Sylvester Gamanywa said this year’s election results have caused great shock and pain to those who hoped to win but they should be reminded that protests are not the solution to the various issues that arose during and after the election. “Tanzania is the most peaceful and calm nation in East Africa and seventh in the continental ranking, according to the Global Peace Index (GPI), it will be a shame to breach the peace we have. Politicians should as well not involve innocent ‘wananchi’ in such protests,” he said According to him, there is a special strategy from outside Tanzania to get the country into chaos and disrupt peace, thus everyone must be warned to maintain the peace in the nation.