TEMEKE coach, Lucy Augustino was overjoyed when her team was crowned CRDB Taifa Cup champions after beating hosts, Dodoma 46-36 points in an exciting final held here at Chinangali courts on Saturday. “Im speechless, I don’t know what to say, it was a tough and an unpredictable match, but thanks God, we made it,” reacted Augustino, celebrating with her team players and supporters, by taking numerous photos with a trophy soon after being presented with guest of honour, Hasan Abbasi, who is the Deputy Minister for Information, Arts, Culture and Sports. Augustino said that it was the first time for her to win the prestigious sponsored CRDB Taifa Cup title as a coach since the inception of the event over two decades ago. “I last year took over the team as a caretaker coach, after years of setback, I have finally made it and this will live in my memory,” she said. The triumph over Dodoma was likely a revenge for Temeke girls, after losing in the group stages. The 14-all draw in the first quarter proved that each side was well prepared, but Temeke pulled off to win the second quarter by 13-7, before claiming the third quarter by 12-8 and were held 7-7 in the last quarter. Meanwhile, Mbeya City’s head coach, Juma Kisoki was also delighted to win the CRDB Taifa Cup coveted title for the second time, after beating neversay-die Temeke 68-55 in the final. The title winning for Kisoki was a repetition of what they did in 2015.” It reflects my 2015’s memories when we won it, but this time, it is more than that,” “The other time we had fewer teams, but this time around, we had more than 30 teams from every region,’ said Kisoki. A-cum-coach has also made a history of winning the title with Mbeya City for fifth time, three times as a player and twice as a coach. He said hard work paid off for her boys, though their opponents had also a chance of becoming winners. His opponent coach, Shendu Mwagala of Temeke was speechless and had only a few words to say” They deserved to win,”. The first quarter ended 17- all draw, but Temeke won the second quarter by 18-15. The third and fourth quarters went to Mbeya City, winning by 21-13 and 15-7. The winners were presented with trophies by Dr. Abbas, who had represented Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa, who attended only the first half and departed for other duties. Both winners were given CRDB dummy cheque of 2m/- as second placed went home with 1m/-. The sponsors also gave Sh200,000 to all 36 teams which took part in the tournament plus certificates and medals. Speaking during the presentation, Abbasi, who is also the government’s spokesperson said that the government has set aside strategies to improve sports and arts in the country. “We are planning to construct a modern sports facility that will accommodate all sporting events,” said Abbasi. He also hailed CRDB for sponsoring the event and their commitments to social development. The bank’s executive director, Abdulmajid Musa said that his financial institution will collaborate with government and other institutions to bring about sports and social development in the country. “We are extremely happy to be associated with sports development in he country, hoping to support again this event next year,” said the CRDB boss.