RUKWA Region has launched a 12bn/- five-year project to protect girls in relation to teenage pregnancy, early and forced marriage. The project dubbed ‘Preventing Child, Early and Forced Marriage’ in the region is implemented by Plan International Tanzania in partnership with Rukwa Sustainable Organisation( Rusudeco), People’s Development Forum (PDF), Rafiki SDO and Youth Education through Sports Tanzania (Yes). Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Joachim Wangabo launched the project in the municipal council yesterday, saying in collaboration with the government, development partners, religious leaders and the community as a whole. It will come to an end by 2024. “To address teenage pregnancy, Rukwa Region has already developed a five-year regional action plan (2019-2022) on ending violence against women and children as part of the regional commitment to implementing the 2017/18-2021/22 national plan of action to end violence against women and children in Tanzania,” explained the RC. He commended Plan International Tanzania for successfully securing Nok 50,375,188 equivalent to 12bn/- from Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (Norad) to implement an integrated approach to prevent or end child, early and forced marriage. Mr Laudent Wambura, who represented Plan International Tanzania Director of Programme, said the project aimed at achieving five key outcomes that included keeping girls in school until they reached the age of 18 years. Other intended outcomes include intensifying provision of education on sexual rights on health reproductive (SRHR), reducing poverty of girls and their families, educating girls on norms and inequality that lead to child marriage. About 37 per cent of Tanzanian girl children are married off before they reach 18 years old, according to the Tanzania Demographic and Malaria Indicator Survey (TDHMIS 2016). This involves both legal and informal unions where the marriage is not registered. On average almost two out of five girls will be married off before their 18th birth day. The prevalence rate varies by region, including as high as 56 per cent. Rukwa is among the regions standing at nine slot out of 25 regions in the country with high rates of child marriage cases of the rates of 40 per cent which is above the national rate of 37 per cent (TDHMS 2016).
In light of this, in 2018 Rukwa Region 269 child marriage cases were reported to communities.
Of these, 115 cases of child marriage were reported in Nkasi District, in Kalambo 54, in Sumbawanga 83 and Sumbawanga Municipal Council 17 cases. “This project aims at reaching 32,167 children out of them girls are 23,356 and boys are 9,811 as well as 21,881 parents from 116 villages and 36 wards from Nkasi, Kalambo and Sumbawanga district councils,” explained Mr Wambura. He further said the project would build on the previous project of ending child marriage funded also by Norad, which was implemented in three wards in Nkasi District. For his part, PDF Executive Director Jurua Kizito said “I’m very happy that today we are having the launch of the project that Rukwa Region is fully supporting it...when a project is well supported by the government it attracts more projects and this will open ways for more projects,” he added.