OVER the past two years, water transportation has tremendously improved and revenue from it increased. This comprises transportation covering 1,420km along the coastline of the Indian Ocean, the third-largest of the world’s oceanic divisions, covering 70,560,000km2 (19.8 per cent) of the water on earth’s surface and in various fresh water rivers and lakes Tanzania shares with neighbouring countries. This was after the government’s bold decision to establish Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (Tasac) under Section 4 of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act No 14 of 2017, but special tasks begun in February 2018. Tasac Director-General Emmanuel Stephen Ndomba said recently that in the past two years, Tasac had successfully improved the safety of water transportation by promoting the security of marine vessels. “Tasac realised its aim of ensuring availability of safe water transportation services which adhere to marine rules and regulations. This has attracted more customers to use Tanzania’s harbours to import and export goods,” he said. Mr Ndomba explained further that Tasac had also in the past two years stood firmly to ensure International Maritime organisation (IMO) protocols, agreements and guidelines were adhered to as a way of not only boosting marine transport safety, but also considering environmental conservation which is vital for marine life. Tasac has as well harmonised revenue in ship agency business and curbed forged documents which in the past resulted in losses. Tasac strives to ensure regions bordering water bodies set up offices to facilitate access to its services. They include Tanga, Dar es Salaam and Mtwara. Regions in the Lake Zone with Tasac offices include Mwanza, Kagera, Geita and Mara. There is also Kigoma Region (Lake Tanganyika). Others are in Mbeya and Rukwa regions that serve Lake Nyasa transporters. To ensure Tanzania benefits from the blue economy, Tasac has also removed unfriendly levies to customers. They include delivery order fees, administration charges, container service charges, car service charges, rebate and container cleaning charges. “This has reduced costs to serve consumers,” said Mr Ndomba. Over the two years, Tasac has also strengthened safety in water transportation where only 15 accidents were recorded in 2019, compared to 18 accidents in the year before. “Accidents were minimised and safety among water transporters increased by initiating an education programme for operators and vessel owners and 149 meetings which went in hand with offering safety education were effected in different areas,” he said. The director-general noted that the compliance with laws of the land was also promoted, where 92 per cent of smaller ships complied with rules and regulations, compared to only 80 per cent in 2018. Tasac is also popularising emerging opportunities in water transportation due to massive investments made by the government. Examples of these, according to Mr Ndomba, are opportunities emerging in the construction of more than seven ports, and rehabilitating others. This includes opportunities of cross border trade to countries which share borders with Tanzania through lakes. Countries like Burundi, Uganda, Zambia and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are those, whose opportunities are emerging for Tanzanians to utilise controlled marine transport by Tasac. In this short period of time, Tasac has not only given dividend to the government, but has also created more than 300 direct jobs and more indirect ones. “We are committed to ensuring that workers are with working zeal, creativity and responsibility to meet international standards,” he said. Tasac is using modern methods, including integrated ICT tools, to ensure statistics in the marine transport sector are collected. These include cargo shipped, which make the country take rightful steps and decisions when it comes to increasing efficiency. Statistics, among other things, are used by relevant authorities to spearhead voluntary tax compliance among marine transporters, which also curbs tax evasion.