THE police in Magu District have arrested Ijinga Village Chairperson Badri Masengo (40) for allegedly impregnating a 15-year-old schoolgirl. Magu District Commissioner (DC) Salum Kalli said the chairman was in police custody for interrogation in relation to the incident. He said the suspect would be arraigned after investigation. According to the DC, preliminary investigation shows that the suspect has been having a love affair with the schoolgirl for some time. He noted that the schoolgirl admitted that the suspect was in regular visit to her home and was used to picking her to some other places to fulfill his sexual gratification. “The schoolgirl told us that last time the suspect visited the home when her parents had gone to attend a funeral ceremony and he gave her 20,000/-. He then went away with her. However, after having sexual intercourse with her, the man took back his money and returned the girl home, while promising to continue offering her various gifts,” said the DC. He added: "We won't accept sexual abuse to continue. Our girls cannot be expelled from school as simple as that." The DC decried unscrupulous teachers and other members of the public, who abused schoolgirls and urged law enforcers, including the Police Force and the Judiciary, to play their part to protect schoolgirls and ensure they realised their dreams. "That is why the government has come up with free education. The main goal is to ensure every child has access to education no matter her/his parents’ financial position. The culprits will not be tolerated. I insist this. Let all stakeholders support this war," said the DC. District Primary Education Officer Glory Mtui commended the DC for the fight against early pregnancy, saying the move would help protect schoolgirls. She said 28 early pregnancy cases had been recorded in the district from January this year, stressing that: "the problem is still big and needs joint support from various stakeholders to back government efforts." Ward Executive Officer (WEO) John Mabati confirmed his office to have interrogated the suspect, saying the man admitted to have impregnated the schoolgirl. In a bid to escape legal action, the suspect promised to pay 2m/- dowry and marry her, but the WEO took further measures. Ijinga Primary School Headmaster Ncheyeki Casmir said the girl was one of 10 school girls who had gone for a pregnancy test in compliance with school rules.