CHINA has pledged to resume its programme of bringing 10,000 tourists to the country next year when the Covid -19 pandemic is contained globally. Zhejiang Province Director for Tourism and Culture, Mr Chu Ziyu made the assurance mid this week during a meeting with Tanzania's Ambassador to China, Mr Mbelwa Kairuki in Hangzhou City. Ambassador Kairuki said that Zhejiang Province and Tanzania have agreed to strengthen cooperation in tourism and culture. According Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), more than 10, 000 tourists from China were expected to jet in Dar es Salaam between February and March this year following an agreement signed in 2018, between TTB and Touchroad International Holdings Group of China. In the past two years, TTB focused on attracting more tourists from China, including making a major tourist tour in Tanzania known as ‘roadshow’ in various cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Guangzhou, Hong Kong, Nanjing and Changsha. The board also signed an agreement with Touchroad International Holdings Group to bring 10,000 tourists from China, coordinating journalists and famous people tours, and a trip of 11 people from Baidu companies and others. But, the outbreak of deadly coronavirus at the end of last year led to the suspension of the programme as among measures taken to prevent and control the spread of coronavirus to other nations. In April this year, the government suspended all international flights as one of the measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus. But in May, Tanzania opened its airspace for commercial, diplomatic, aid, emergency and special mission flights following a steady slowdown in the novel virus. Tanzania reopened its airspace for international passenger flights on June 1, this year, after a 3-month stint of Covid-19, becoming the pioneer country in East Africa to welcome tourists to visit its endowed attractions. Since then, the number of arrivals has continued to increase, with several airlines resuming operations. Recently, France was ranked the top international tourist market for Tanzania in terms of the number of tourist arrivals in the country for the months of July, August and September after the country re-opened its skies for travel.