MR Justus Magongo (CCM) has been elected the chairman of Muleba Council for the next five years (2020-2025). He replaces Mr Chrisant Kamugisha, who died in a tragic road accident a few weeks before the October 28, 2020 general election. Mr Magongo, who is also the councillor of Muhutwe Ward scooped 33 votes against Mr Elton Muta, the councillor of Kibanga Ward who got 20 votes. Mr Muhaji Bushako, the councillor of Muleba Ward was elected the vice-chairman after getting 27 votes against Mr Evord Tilwetwa from Rulanda Ward, who got 16 votes, while Mr Jonita Tibihenda from Buhangaza Ward got 11 votes. Mr Wilbard Bambara was elected the chairman of Ngara Council. He replaces Mr Erick Nkiramazina, while Mr Adronizi Bulindoli was elected the deputy chairman. In Kyerwa District, Mr Bahati Lekayo was elected the council chairman. He replaces Mr Kashunju Runyogote. Councillors in Biharamulo District elected Mr Lushashu Leo the council chairman. He replaces Ms Afisa Galiatano. Mr Gibson Rweyemamu becomes the Bukoba municipal mayor. He replaces Chifu Adonis Kalumuna (Chadema). Three former chairmen of Missenyi, Karagwe and Bukoba district councils retained their position respectively. They include Mr Murshid Ngeze (Bukoba), Mr Projestus Tegamaisho (Missenyi) and Mr Wallace Mashanda (Karagwe). During the 2015-2020 period, Bukoba Municipal Council was led by the opposition under Mr Kalumuna (Chadema). He contested the Bukoba Urban parliamentary position, but lost to CCM candidate Stephen Byabato, who got 29,883 votes against Mr Kalumuna’s 16,673 votes. During the 2015-2020 period, eight out of the 14 wards comprising Bukoba Municipal Council were under Chadema namely Kibeta, Hamgembe, Kagondo, Kitendaguro, Kashai, Nshambya, Kahororo and Bukoba while Bilele was under CUF. Five wards were under CCM namely Rwamishenye, Ijuganyondo, Miembeni, Buhembe and Nyanga.
However, during the general election the opposition camp suffered a big blow, losing eight wards except Kagondo (Chadema), while 13 wards were won by CCM candidates. Kagera Regional elections coordinator Mapinduzi Severian, on the other hand, revealed that CCM won in 182 wards out of 192 while the opposition camp won in only 10 wards. She further said that CCM candidates had won parliamentary positions in all nine constituencies.
She named the legislators to include Dr Jasson Rweikiza (Bukoba Rural), Mr Stephen Byabato (Bukoba Urban), Mr Charles Mwijage (Muleba North) and Dr Ishengoma Kikoyo (Muleba South). Others are Mr Innocent Bilakwate (Kyerwa), Mr Ezra Chilewesa (Biharamulo), Mr Innocent Bashungwa (Karagwe), Mr Ndayisaba Ruhoro (Ngara) and Mr Florent Kyombo (Missenyi-Nkenge). During the 2015-2020 period, eight out of the nine constituencies in Kagera Region were led by CCM legislators. The constituencies with outgoing MPs in brackets include Bukoba Rural (Mr Jasson Rweikiza), Muleba South (Prof Anna Tibaijuka), Muleba North (Mr Charles Mwijage), Missenyi-Nkenge (Dr Diodorus Kamala). Others are Ngara (Mr Alex Gashaza), Biharamulo (Mr Oscar Mukasa), Karagwe (Mr Innocent Bashungwa) and Kyerwa (Mr Innocent Bilakwate). Bukoba Urban Constituency was led by Mr Wilfred Lwakatare (Chadema), who later defected to CUF.