DODOMA residents commended President John Magufuli’s speech he delivered during the inauguration of the 12th Parliament in Dodoma on Friday. They said the speech shed light on the fifth phase government’s commitment to continuing improving people’s wellbeing. Speaking on Friday, the residents commended President Magufuli’s government for coming up with a plan of health insurance for all, saying a healthy community was key to boosting the  country’s economy. A healthy community is one that can perform all economic activities with vigour while without it, one will have to spend time in bed and in hospital, thus, delaying socioeconomic development,” said Ms Irene Calistus, a resident of Kikuyu. Ms Calistus commended President Magufuli’s commitment to ensuring health insurance for all, saying it showed how he cared for people’s wellbeing. “By making it a requirement for every citizen, it will guarantee reliable treatment when in need and when we are in good health, our engagement in economic activities is guaranteed,” she insisted. Ms Lily Mushi was impressed with President Magufuli’s commitment to investing in traditional medicine, saying it was an avenue which was left unattended, but which was of paramount importance. “We have been using traditional medicine previously and it is very effective. Thus, administering it, conducting research and having pharmacies that sell a variety of medicines is something to celebrate,” she insisted. She said people should be having a choice when it came to medicine and rural areas were rich in plant species that were sources of drugs whose mixture cured so many diseases. “The side effects of traditional medicine is almost negligible and in most cases, our doctors need to be assisted to be able to prescribe dozes and frequencies patients may take,” said Ms Mushi. Ms Zahara Katipo said constructing health centres in rural villages brought about new hope, especially to rural women, who had to walk long distances in search of health facilities. “He has done a good job to improve the health sector. His commitment to reaching the remaining areas is something that needs to be commended as everyone, everywhere regardless of the location can have access to health services,” said Ms Khatib. An upcoming artist, Mr Mussa Joyabi could not resist to cheer up when President Magufuli said issues of copyright and improving arts’ status and make the industry vibrant was one of the priority areas in the coming five years. “We have been toiling for a long time for our copyrights. Time has come for us to celebrate and enjoy what we have reaped and it will change our status since in families and the community, being an artist was looked as something negative,” said Mr Joyabi. The majority of motorcyclists and rickshaw riders as well as taxi drivers said it was high time, driving was regarded professional job. Thus, President Magufuli wanted the National Assembly to enact a law that would cater for drivers' rights and their protections. Vendors kept on smiling as President Magifuli promised to formalise entrepreneurs’ identity cards and make entrepreneurs access loans and others business facilities. Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) Central Zone Executive Secretary, Iddi Senge said the private sector had earned recognition as the engine of economic development. He was pleased that the government had expressed its commitment to having a vibrant private sector, by addressing challenges and creating an enabling business environment for them to deliver effectively.