“ Where in Dar es Salaam do you live?” “Pardon?” “You said you are from the city , right?” “Right.” “No offence but I am struggling to believe you. So if you don’t mind, can you tell me where exactly in Dar you live?” “I am from Dar es Salaam believe me.” “Only after you tell me the name of your estate.” Seated at my uncles funeral and watching this exchange between the caterer and this middle-aged woman depressed and tickled me at the same time. The caterer, a tall dark skinned woman in an orange shirt and black jeans, had a no-nonsense face because if you attempt to feed mourners with a smiley face they will eat you alive. The woman she was picking a bone with had no legs to stand on. She was obviously not from Dar es Salaam. All she wanted was food and seeing as the line for ordinary village folks was not moving, she and a battalion of other hungry moaners decided to join the city dwellers queue and now they were being called out for it. “If you know you are not from Dar es Salaam please step aside,” the caterer announced to everyone in line. “And if you like, you can stay in line. But just know there’s no plate for you and if there’s no plate for you, there’s no food for you.” That announcement was met with suppressed murmurs that grew louder and louder by the minute. I half-expected one of the village folks, perhaps the mama who had taken the questioning on behalf of the rest, to stomp the ground and shout, “Enough! We the village folks have had it up to here (points at her throat) with this Dar es Salaam People nonsense. What is it they have that we don’t? Did they wail louder than we did?” A crowd would cheer her and motivated, she would turn to the crowd and ask, “Are we children of a lesser God?” “NO!” “Don’t we sleep at night and work during the day like the rest of them?” “WE DO!” “Or do they think we are bats and them human beings?” “ASK THEM!” “Look at us, brethren, I say look at us. Are we not healthier and happier? Who doesn’t know that that city long lost its glory? Is it not obvious that we village people are living a better life and even contributing more to the economy than these wig wearing city women and pants-sagging men?” “YEEEES!” “PREACH!” A drunkard would chime in. “Time is ripe for us to stand up for ourselves. I say we beat the shit out of this caterer together with her city people and eat all the damn food! Who is with me?” “Meeeee!” “I asked. WHO. IS. WITH. ME!” “MEEEEE!” And then all together they would round us up and beat the shit out of us before proceeding to eat all the food. Alongside burying my uncle, they would also have buried the Dar es Salaam People shenanigan. But that did not happen. The caterer did not mince her words. I wanted to tell her to serve the damn lady but I feared her wrath. I wasn’t even sure what I was doing there. I was never interested in the food because eating at funerals, even of my closest relatives, is not my thing. But I had been forced to eat because we always have that relative in such functions looking out for you. Standing in line I could feel the judging eyes of the other villagers. I could tell they were boiling inside. I could tell that they were cursing us. But it was what it was. I was there to bury my relative and not to stand up for anybody. Besides, I was stupified to find out that the Dar es Salaam people syndrome is actually a thing. It was the first time I was witnessing it. So it embarrassed me, being one of them, being treated differently and benefitting from impunity, still amused me as well. But eating is not what took me, or any other person there. We were there to bury a relative who died of breast cancer. He died right here in the city and other than his shocking death, the only other thing people talked about was the fact that he had nine daughters and no son. It was a well-known fact but people still talked about it as if they had just found out that of his nine daughters, none of them was a boy. “What I admire about that man is the fact that he never thought of marrying another woman who would give him a son,” someone said. I only chuckled. Because that statement seemed to suggest it was his wife who couldn’t give him a son. But I had no time to engage them in one of my biology and fertility discussions. What was noteworthy was that his nine daughters gave their dad a decent sendoff. And before that, they tried their best to give him the best treatment. That he died was not because they didn’t try. It’s funny that a week after this my uncle’s death, our other uncle who was in the country side ensuring that the funeral runs smoothly, also died while being rushed to the hospital. He died in my father’s arms and we buried the two one week apart. This one had 12 sons and many daughters, but the difference between how the nine daughters treated their father even to his day of being laid to rest and the way the 12 sons did is like night and day. It made me believe that in the end, it’s our daughters who will take us to the best hospitals and when the doctors can’t save us, they are the ones who will buy nice coffins and bury us with dignity. Our sons might erect a make-shift kitchen at the backside of our huts during our funeral, but even that we can’t bet on it. Daughters are nurturing, motherly and loving