GOVERNMENT has reinforced security on Tanzanite minerals following a successful installation of 24-hour surveillance CCTV cameras on the 24.5 km perimeter wall surrounding Mirerani Mines. The 1.2bn/- project is set to curb Tanzanite smuggling and deter other crimes which were synonymous with the mines, even before the construction of the perimeter wall. Handing over the project to the Defence and National Service docket here yesterday, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Minerals Prof Simon Msanjila described the project as massive and crucial in smuggling the precious gems buried at Mirerani hills. The modern security and surveillance equipment will be mounted on the wall and at other locations at the mines, to spy on dishonest individuals attempting to steal or walk out with the gems. “The surveillance cameras have been approved by experts and will greatly assist us in identifying those trying to steal the minerals,” Prof Msanjila explained. The PS further pointed out the government will be assured of even more revenues from the precious gems, once the project kicks off. “Before the wall was put in place, the government used to pocket 238mn/- in revenues, but that changed last year when we raked in 3.5bn/-,” he said. Even with the installation of surveillance system, the PS challenged civil servants working in the mines to become vigilant in safeguarding the precious gemstones, urging them to shun soliciting bribes in the good name of smuggling the minerals. In the same vein, Prof Msanjila recounted the one-year rigorous process of awarding the tender to bidders, who wanted to implement the project. According to the PS, some of the bidders presented to his office, desk astronomical figures in their desire in securing the project. “Some requested a whopping 83bn/- to win the deal, but eventually we settled for 1.2bn/-,” he revealed. The surveillance cameras, scanners as well as other safety electronic devices have been installed by a local company called Starfix Enterprises which has been commissioned by the government. Speaking earlier on, the firm’s senior official Engineer Jason Kyando said the installation included mounting of 25 station metal boxes on the perimeter wall and other buildings in the mines, Unshielded Twisted Pair (UTP) cables, a server and a control room to run the devices. “This is one of a kind technology in the region, therefore we had to thoroughly train the technicians,” he said. The installed devices will be able to detect even gems concealed in the shoes of the smugglers. In September 2017, President John Magufuli directed the country's army to build a wall around tanzanite mine site in northern part of the nation to control theft and smuggling of the precious gemstones.