EARLY sexual intercourse and excessive use of tobacco are among the factors fuelling increased cases of cervical cancer among women and girls in the country. Despite an alarming number of the dangerous disease, health pundits have raised concern over poor awareness among women and girls over the epidemic, as well as willingness to diagnose the killer disease. Cervical cancer is the most common cancer in Tanzania, whereby statistics show that, excluding human immunodeficiency virus, lower respiratory infections, malaria, diarrheal diseases and TB, cervical cancer kills more women than any other form of illness in the country. It happens when cells change in a woman’s cervix, which connects her uterus with her vagina. This cancer can affect the deeper tissues of her cervix and may spread to other parts of her body (metastasise), often the lungs, liver, bladder, vagina as well as rectum. Most cases of cervical cancer are caused by infection with human papillomavirus (HPV), which is preventable with a vaccine. Cervical cancer ranks as the first most frequent cancer among women and the first most frequent cancer among women between 15 and 44 years of age. In an exclusive interview, Ms Mary Ngowi, a health expert at Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) Oncology via Screening Department said only few women and girls attended went for diagnose of the dangerous disease. “This department was introduced by the government since last year for giving free cervical cancer screening services among women and girls, but unfortunately responses among the targeted groups is very discouraging,” she said. Ms Ngowi noted that only few patients went to the facility when they were in a critical stage. “Cervical cancer is treatable, but due to ignorance of the disease many patients find themselves seeking treatment while in a critical stage, which causes deaths.” She said in a critical stage of illness, it was complicated for the patient to recover and the only option was to remain home under palliative care, just taking pain-killer drugs waiting for death. “The disease continues killing many women and girls in the country, especially in rural areas. There is a need for more awareness campaigns to sensitise women and girls so that they may turn out in big numbers for screening before the situation aggravates,” she urged. She named Mwanza, Mara and Bukoba as among the regions with high cervical cancer prevalence in the country. The disease is the fourth most common cancer in women globally, with over 500,000 new cases and estimated 250,000 deaths each year. The burden of cervical cancer is disproportionately high in developing countries, which accounts for 85 per cent of cases worldwide and nearly 90 per cent of all cervical cancer deaths. About 3.3 per cent of women in the general population are estimated to harbour cervical HPV-16/18 infection at a given time, and 68.0 per cent of invasive cervical cancers are attributed to HPVs 16 or 18.