SOPHIA Said runs a petty business in Dar es Salaam. She sells fried fish and most of her clients are people living in her neighbourhood, in Mbweni ward in Kinondoni District. Going to a famous fish market along the Indian Ocean in Kunduchi fish market is the order of the day for this petty trader aged 52. At Kunduchi fish market you meet fishermen and women, and hundreds of middlemen who sell different species of fish to hundreds of customers like Sophia at a wholesale price, who then sell at retail price to citizens in Dar es Salaam streets. Busy as it is; conditions at the fish market was in a sorry state some few months ago. Scaling, gutting, cleaning and slicing of fish were done in unhygienic environment posing health risks to consumers out there. But, things have changed, thanks to a project to enhance sanitation and hygiene at the market. Now, over 3,000 members of fishing community around Kunduchi fish market are set to benefit from the initiative. The project worth 9.0m/- involving automated hand washing stations was implemented by a non-governmental organisation, Aqua-Farms Organisation and the National Task Team (NTT) for the implementation of the SmallScale Fishery Guidelines (SSF-Guidelines) at the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. It was funded by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Kunduchi fish market is the largest in Kinondoni District with capacity to serve between 250-300 customers per day; keeping its environment clean means a lot for the health of thousands of consumers in and out of Dar es Salaam. “Make sure that these facilities last long,” Kinondoni District Administrative Secretary, Ms. Stellah Msophe told members of Kunduchi fish market during the handing over ceremony last Friday. The facilities are stationed in three strategic areas of the market. Fishing communities around the country face several constraints including poor hygiene and sanitation practices in many landing sites and fish markets among others. The project in Kunduchi is one of interventions to solve such challenges around the country. A similar project has already been implemented in Kirumba fish market which serves as a central point for sardine trade in the Lake Victoria region. The market provides employment for some 2,500 people engaged in fish processing, packaging, transportation, fish traders and food vending. Emmanuel Kwilasa, a representative from the Ministry says that high standards of hygiene and sanitation practices are essential toward ensuring community confidence in seafood and improving public health. “This project will improve product quality that will meet consumers’ expectations as per national and international food safety recommended standards,” says Emmanuel. Treasurer and Technical Officer at AFO, Valery Joseph thanked all stakeholders for making the project a reality. “Nothing would have been possible without their technical and financial support,” he noted. Grace Kakama, a fisheries officer at Kinondoni municipal, hailed the project and said it is set to revolutionalise hygiene and sanitation at the fish market. “This project strengthens ongoing efforts to fight diseases for the benefit of consumers and the country at large,” she noted. According to a Chairperson of Kunduchi fish market, Mr. Zedi Mwinyi Zedi, they will make sure that the facilities donated will bring desired results and that are run sustainably. At the same day of handling over the facilities, AFO conducted a one-day hygiene and sanitation awareness workshop that involved local leaders around areas in Kunduchi, members of Beach Management Units, fish market officers, fishers and other key stakeholders. According to available statistics, fishing sector generates considerable employment, with an estimated 15,000 –20,000 people engaged in the seaweed sector, 14,100 engaged in freshwater fish farming and 3,000 in the marine sector. The sector includes tilapia, trout, and catfish (in fresh water) and a small marine aquaculture (Mari culture) sector producing milkfish and prawns. There is also small seaweed farming and harvesting sector exploiting red algae used for carrageenan production. Although seaweed production is modest, this activity occupies large numbers of harvesters (mostly women). The total number of people involved in the aquaculture sub sector is about 17,100, with 14,100 involved in freshwater fish farming and about 3 000 in seaweed farming. There are a total of 14,100 fish ponds scattered all over the country with differing potential from one area to another. Most farmers own small ponds of an average size of 150 m2, covering an estimated 221.5 ha. However, there are four regions which have more than 1 000 fish ponds each. These are Ruvuma (4,942), Iringa (3,137), Mbeya (1,176) and Kilimanjaro (1,660). Improving hygiene and sanitation in the sector will have multiple positive effects not only to a last consumer but also to a general improvement of seafood products business in and outside Tanzania. According to the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, fish consumption is estimated to be about 7-8 kg/year and contributes to about 30 per cent of the total animal protein intake. This level of per capita consumption is low, compared to the global per capita consumption of about 20 kg in 2014. With a population growing at 2.7 per cent annually, increased supplies are required just to maintain this limited contribution to the diet; increased supplies calls for improved quality and safety of seafood products that can easily be achieved, improving hygiene and sanitation as demonstrated in Kunduchi and Kirumba fish markets. Should such projects be scaled up in other fish markets around the country, lives of hundreds of small scale fish business owners like Sophia will be enhanced, and there is no doubt that it will make Tanzania competitive in the region and the world. Emmanuel Rubagumya writes about science, technology and innovation. Email: innovationstz@gmail.com