NEWLY elected President of Zanzibar, Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi is scheduled to take the oath of office today morning at the Amani National Stadium, as police assure citizens of adequate security. The Regional Commissioner for Urban West Region, Mr Hassan Khatib Hassan confirmed that preparations were complete for the grand event to swear in Zanzibar’s eighth president. “All has been going on well, including sending out invitations. We expect different leaders led by Union President-elect, Dr John Magufuli to attend the ceremony at Amani National Stadium,” the RC said. Outgoing State Minister responsible for national events, Mohamed Aboud Mohamed also called on members of the public to turn out in big numbers for the swearing in ceremony as he assured the public of security. “The government is well-prepared to ensure the ceremony starts on time and ends on time. People should show support to their new president as he promised them during his campaigns that they should expect a bright future,” Mr Mohamed said. CCM Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar), Dr Abdalla Juma Saadala said the party has extended invitations to several local and foreign dignitaries as well as to all its fans. “We have already sent invitation messages to our fans through public announcements for them to turn-up in big numbers for the celebration,” he said. He said among the expected guests will be leaders from opposition parties who took part in the last week’s General Election and as well as dignitaries from different countries including Namibia, Mozambique, Uganda, Ghana, Kenya, China, Morocco, DRC Congo, ambassadors, and development partners. He said “Election was over and it was time to celebrate before getting back to work. Definitely our leaders Dr Hussein and Dr Magufuli will make wonderful leadership ever. Let us pray for them.” Dr Hussein Mwinyi, 53, recorded landslide victory by securing 76.27 per cent of the vote in the October 27/28, 2020 election that saw the opposition losing almost all seats in the union Parliament and the Zanzibar House of Representatives. Meanwhile,the Urban West Regional Police Commander, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Awadhi Juma Haji said people should come out for the swearing-in ceremony without fear because security has been beefed up. “We are well prepared and have beefed up security in corners of Zanzibar City to ensure the event is smoothly staged,” he said. RPC Haji warned leaders and members of any party who would attempt to stage illegal demonstrations that they would bear the consequences. He said so far Zanzibar Town is safe and people have been going on with their normal activities. In many parts of Unguja and Pemba, life is normalising after the peaceful general election. “Markets, shops and other businesses are open as everything is back to normal after the election. I call on all people to live and work in peace,” Mr Hassan Khatib Hassan, Regional Commissioner for West Urban said.