PROFESSIONAL boxing craze has returned with Tanzanian pugilist Hassan Mwakinyo continues to be among the chief players. Mwakinyo’s powerful jabs that landed squarely on the poorly guarded face of Argentine Jose Carlos did everything at the Next Door Arena on Friday night. His victory responded well to the President John Magufuli’s blessing he gave during the inauguration ceremony of the 12th National Assembly in Dodoma where he wished Mwakinyo the best of luck. “Tanzanians want victory, we are tired of losing every match.” It was in the fourth round when Mwakinyo defended his World Boxing Federation (WBF) Super Welterweight title after Paz lost his balance and pace after he was delivered a heavy punch at his abdomen. A punch that pulled the Argentine down on his knees due to its intense. Despite the pain Paz did not quit, he stood upright and the referee resumed the bout. Though Paz returned, but he was weak, powerless and had lost focus. Mwakinyo took the advantage and cornered Paz, punching him ruthlessly until he slipped down. He once again stood up, but this time it did not take long, as Mwakinyo attacked him severely breaking the Argentine’s guard forcing the referee to stop the fight and save the Argentine. It was Mwakinyo once again stepping out of the ring with pride after recording his 12th knockout victory in his 18 bouts he has won. He has then fought 20 bouts in which 18 of them he won while losing two of them. The bout was colourful with the loud cheer from Tanzanian fans who filled Next-Door Arena, Dar es Salaam to support their boxing star. At the end of the bout he remarked: “I thank God, the Almighty Creator of heavens and earth. I thank those who prayed for me... my opponent was quite good, I only worked out well, three times the last fight.” “I acknowledge my coaches effort, as they have brought me this far. This victory was only possible through them.” Lastly, he responded back on the claims from boxing fans who thought his opponent was not as good as they thought. “If someone thinks the boxer I fought against was not as good as they thought, I call for any boxer who they think is better than me and face me because I am ready to put the money on the table.”