THE Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (Taliri) plans to improve research and expand its capacity on production of seeds for forages with a major ambition to start generating seeds. Scientifically, different from other pastures, legume pastures are with high proteins and other potential nutrients, highly recommended for the productivity of diary and beef cattle. The initiative targets more researches and production of seeds for key legume forages, including Sativa (alfalfa), Macroptium Atropurpureum (siratro) and CritoriaTernatea (blue pea). The envisaged development will see the state-owned institute to expand acreage on its seed farms from 20 acres to at least 50 and advance seed production from 200-500kg annually. According to Taliri Director of Technology Transfer Directorate, Dr Jonas Kizima, the initiative is geared towards assisting the government to reduce high expenditure it uses in importing Brachiaria varieties from abroad, especially from Brazil, currently at $40 per 1kg. He said the use of pastures among livestock keepers in Tanzania was still very low, a poor trend that retarded the metamorphosis of the key sub-sector in which the industrial economy drive hinges on. “Our target is to intensify researches of legume varieties to be inspected and finally certified by the Tanzania Official Seeds Certification Institute (Tosci), the move which will enable us to generate more seeds,” Dr Kizima expressed. He noted that the county was facing a significant shortage and use of improved pastures due to among others lack of few farm seeds and as well as private companies that dealt with pasture seed production. “In Tanzania, there are only few pasture seed producing farms under the Ministry of Agriculture and the ones owned by Taliri,” he said. However, as part of improving the situation he said the institute, in cooperation with International Livestock Research Institute (Iliri), was also implementing another special programme to advance production and accessibility of forage among livestock keepers in the country. Dubbed ‘Adaptation and Association Mapping Studies on Tanzania Brachiaria ecotypes, the initiative is implemented under a programme of Bio-sciences East and Central Africa (BecA) Hub and involves collection of brachiaria of different ecotypes from at least 20 regions. “Home production of forage varieties will be useful as livestock keepers will be able to purchase the varieties at friendly prices, which will in turn improve the sector,” he expressed. According to him, the programme targets to conduct on-station evaluation of collected brachiaria of different ecotypes in terms of their genetic characteristics and morphological assessments to get best varieties for livestock forage. The regions where brachiaria of different ecotypes is grown are Mtwara, Lindi, Morogoro, Coast, Tanga, Dodoma, Manyara, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Singida, Kagera, Mara, Mwanza, Kigoma, Geita, Rukwa, Tabora, Simiyu, Shinyanga and Katavi. “There is a need for improvement and modernisation of the livestock sector. We implement this programme to research and introduce best forage seed varieties with nutrients for cattle,” he expressed. Dr Kizima said as per the programme’s schedule, the best varieties to be picked from selected brachiaria of different ecotypes from 20 regions would later be forwarded to Tosci for certification. So far, he said Taliri had picked its four centres to do professional on-station evaluation of collected brachiaria of different ecotypes. The centres, according to him are Taliri-Tanga, Taliri-Mabuki, Taliri-Mpwapwa and Taliri-Uyole, Mbeya. He said he was optimistic that the ongoing programme would meet the targeted end-results and contribute greatly to the advancement of the country’s livestock sector.