A WEEK- LONG exhibitions ahead of the World AIDS Day on December 1, 2020 will start today (November 25,2020) at Pasua’s Mandela Grounds in Moshi, where the youth will offer several services and showcase other activities. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa is expected to grace the World Aids Day scheduled to be marked at the national level in Kilimanjaro Region. According to Permanent Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Policy Coordination and Investment, Doroth Mwaluko, there are several activities scheduled before the climax. “Before the climax we expect to have a series of activities whereas from Wednesday (today), we expect to officially launch a week-long activity for the celebrations and begin with a charity walk to raise fund for the Aids Trust Fund (ATF),’’ said Ms Mwaluko. People around the world unite to show support for people living with HIV and to remember those who have died from AIDS-related illnesses. The day will be preceded by a scientific workshop to assess the status of the disease in the country, as well as a youth debate to be held at Dodoma Regional Commissioners conference room. According to Ms Mwaluko, the debate will be attended by students from different higher learning institutions in Kilimanjaro Region. According to the PS, the rate of new HIV infections is still high, because about 72,000 people are being infected every year and this is equivalent to 6,000 people per month or 200 people per day and eight people every one hour. “Statistics show that the youth aged between 15 and 24 contribute to new infections by 40 per cent thus categorising this group as in danger of acquiring new HIV infections in the country,’’ added Ms Mwaluko. Each World AIDS Day focuses on a specific theme, which this year will be- Global solidarity, shared responsibility. This year’s theme joins a growing list of challenges that World AIDS Day has been alerting people globally on. Founded in 1988, World AIDS Day was the first ever international day for global health. Every year, United Nations agencies, governments and civil society join together to campaign around specific themes related to HIV. It is dedicated to raising awareness on the AIDS pandemic caused by the spread of HIV infection and mourning those who have died of the disease.