THE police in Karagwe District are investigating the death of a 65-year-old woman, whose cause has not yet been established. Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revocatus Malimi identified the woman as Anatolia Petro from Bujuluga Villager in Bugene Ward. "Initial investigation reveals that the woman who was living alone in her house, was killed by unknown people on the night of November 16. So far nobody has been arrested in connection with the incident," he said. Meanwhile, the police in Ngara District are investigating the deaths of two people killed in a tragic road accident. According to the police, the driver has been held in connection with the accident. Ngara District Commanding Officer (OCD) Abeid Mahige named those killed in the accident as Annon Arish (58) and Ihejee Almoud (60), both of Indian descent. He explained that on November 12, this year, Charles Kamembe (30) from Mwanza City who was driving a Toyota Land cruiser (T708 DHS) caused the deaths of the two foreigners. He said the accident happened at Kasulo Village in Ngara District, adding that the suspect would be arraigned after investigation. The accident comes barely a month after another tragic road accident claimed 16 lives in Ngara District. On October 24, this year, 16 passengers were killed in the road accident, whereby five bodies of two Tanzanians and three Burundians, were identified and taken by their relatives. Ngara District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Revocatus Ndyekobora, said DNA tests were taken on 11 unidentified bodies before they were separately buried at Mukidiri Village. Each DNA was given a special identification number. Mr Malimi noted that the ill-fated bus (T670 DKL), property of Fly Emirates Company overturned 3km from Ngara Town at about 10am after its brakes failed when descending a steep hill at Kumunyange Village in Ngara District. "At least 13 passengers died on the spot while three others died while hospitalised. The bus was plying between Ngara and Bukoba," he said.