ABDALLAH Pazy “Dulla Mbabe” has been axed out of the November 13th bout against Alex Kabangu of Democratic Republic of Congo at Next Door Arena in Dar es Salaam. This was confirmed yesterday by Jackson Sport CEO, Kelvin Twissa who also unveiled Hussein Itaba as Dulla Mbabe’s replacement. He further elaborated that the changes are common practice in professional boxing; adding that the boxer (Itaba) has already begun training. “We have made some changes in one of our fights with the aim of expanding the scope and restore respect of the professional boxing. Itaba has already begun training and I believe he will do well,” said Twissa. Itaba has so far fought 14 bouts where he has won seven with five of them by knockout; he has drawn twice and lost five. In five fights that he last fought (last year) he won twice and lost three and three of the bouts that he lost, were fought outside the country. Recently, Dulla flew to Kazakhstan to face Bek Nurmaganbet where he lost the fight by points. Thus the 22 year old boxer from Kazakhstan has now played 28 bouts; won 20 with three by knockouts and lost eight. At Next Door, Hassan Mwakinyo will also step on the ring to face Jose Carlos Paz from Argentina. The two will be fighting for International Boxing Association (IBA) continental championship. The Argentine has fought 35 bouts; won 23 with 13 of them by knockouts, he drew once and lost 11. Other bouts in the card will include the former WBC world champion Fatuma Zarika from Kenya who will face Patience Mastara of Zimbabwe; while Zulfa Macho will exchange punches with Alice Mbewe of Zimbabwe. “On that day there will be many big fights that will involve boxers from six countries; Argentina, DR Congo, Kenya, Zimbabwe and Tanzania. It is a day when professional boxing fans will see something completely different,” said Twisa. He said that they have decided to get into boxing its former stronghold due to the recognition of the talents of various boxers, most notably Hassan Mwakinyo who is doing well in his fights.