CHINA has continued to open its market for cassava from Tanzania, after another company from the Asian nation expressed interest to purchase one million tonnes of the product starting this season. The company's interest came amid government intervention to push for the general performance of the sub- sector, especially on production and productivity. Following the rising cassava demand in the lucrative Chinese market, the government intends to scale up cassava production from the current eight tonnes to at least 16 tonnes per hectare through adoption of improved technology. The Chinese company - Holley International Chairperson, Ms Show Shen expressed interest when she met with Tanzania's   Ambassador to China, Mr Mbelwa Kairuki at Hangzhou, the capital of China’s Zhejiang province. The envoy said that the company agrees to purchase cassava chips (dried) with required quality specification, such as being free from mould and any foreign matters. He said that the company has also expressed interest to buy cashewnuts. Director for Crops in the Ministry of Agriculture, Nyasebwa Chimagu said recently that China’s cassava market is very promising and open to everyone, adding that the government is working to provide all necessary measures to facilitate market accessibility. According to him, as per the set China’s market requirements, the exported products should be free from pest and diseases, free from contaminants such as sand, metal contamination and free from pesticide residues. “Also, the products must be packaged in new packaging materials that conform with Chinese requirements,” said Mr Chimagu. Due to prolonged rainfall and existence of Covid-19, no cassava was exported in 2020.
However, the world price of dry cassava is relatively low and do not match with current costs of production in Tanzania. Tanzania exports small quantities of cassava and cassava products, mainly dry chips to Rwanda, Burundi, DRC, Kenya, China, Oman and United Emirates, the exportation which saw the country fetch at least 12.93million US dollars in a period between 2016 and 2018. In May 2017, Tanzania signed phy-tosanitary protocol with people of the United Republic of China as a bilateral business development that apart from permitting local companies to trade with China, it also opened market access for dry cassava from Tanzania. Currently, there are at least six local registered companies introduced in China for dry cassava exportation, but the country has yet to reap the economic fortunes from the promised market due to some setbacks negating the country’s cassava production chain.