THE re-call of old guards; Erasto Nyoni and Juma Kaseja has been a surprise package in Taifa Stars squad unveiled on Thursday by the team’s Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije ahead of the AFCON qualifers against Tunisia this month. The two are part of the 27 envoys in the tough two matches against the North Africans. The recalling of multi-skilled defender Nyoni might be a bit surprise to many as the Simba player has only played once for his club since the start of the 2020/21 league season. Besides the duo, Ndayiragije also named JKT Tanzania top marksman Adam Adam who is the league’s top scorer so far having netted six goals. Adam was the first players to score a hattrick, a feat that makes a favourite striker in a tough mission against Tunisia. Taifa Stars will face Tunisia on November 13th away at the Stade Olympique de Redes in Tunis. Other players in the squad are Deus Kaseke, Abdallah Shaibu and Farid Mussa from Young Africans. The full squad named for the AFCON qualifiers comprises the following players: Goalkeepers: Juma Kaseja (KMC), Metacha Mnata (Yanga SC), Aishi Manula (Simba SC), David Mapigano (Azam FC). Defenders: Shomari Kapombe, Mohamed Hussein (Simba SC), Bryson David, Abdallah Kheri (Azam FC), Bakari Mwamnyeto (Yanga SC) Abdallah Shaibu (Yanga), Erasto Nyoni (Simba). Midfielders: Jonas Mkude, Said Hamisi, Yassin Mzamiru (Simba SC), Himid Mao (ENPPI SC, Egypt), Iddy Nado, Salum Abubakar (Azam FC), Feisal Salum (Yanga SC), Ally Msengi (Stellenbosch FC, South Africa). Strikers: John Bocco (Simba SC), Mbwana Samatta (Fenerbhace FC, Turkey), Simon Msuva (Diffa El Jadidi, Morocco), Thomas Ulimwengu (TP Mazembe-DR Congo), Ditram Nchimbi, Farid Mussa, Deus Kaseke (Yanga) and Adam Adam from JKT Tanzania. Tanzania’s Taifa Stars who are currently placed second in Group J, will face Tunisia’s Eagles of Carthage on November 13th in the first leg before hosting them on November 17th at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Other countries in Group J are Libya and Equatorial Guinea.