THE government has disbursed about 1.4bn/- to the Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI), to assist palm oil producers in the country as budget support to increase production of the product. Among other things, the money is also intended to support the state-owned institution to research and produce enough palm oil seedlings to farmers and impart knowledge and skills to extension officers and farmers to cultivate the cash crop professionally. Ever since the government decided to embark on large-scale production of palm oil in the country to increase the availability of crude oil, Tari was tasked to research, produce and distribute palm oil seedlings to farmers, with Tari-Kihinga and Tari-Ilonga centres being picked to coordinate. During an interview with the ‘Daily News’, the national coordinator for palm oil research in Tanzania, Dr Filson Kagimbo, said the focus was to produce 5,000,000 seedlings annually. “We commend the government for starting disbursing the money to help us operate more efficiently,” he said. Dr Kagimbo, who doubles as Director of Tari-Kihinga Centre, however, said there was a need for the government to think of increasing budget allocations to improve efficiency and crop yield. He said the initiative required adequate funds for it involved researches, innovations, production and seedlings and training of farmers and extension officers. He further said that as of June 20, this year, the centre had produced at least 1,805,868 seedlings to cover 36,117 acres. "We have more than 800,000 seedlings, whereby the annual target is to produce at least 1.2 million palm oil seedlings," he explained. For his part, palm oil researcher for the Eastern Zone Frank Reuben said at least 76,000 palm oil seedlings had been produced at Morogoro-based Tari-Ilonga Centre. "The centre's focus is to produce 200,000 seedlings in six months to be distributed to farmers in Morogoro, Tanga and Coast regions," he said. He added that demand for palm oil seedlings kept on increasing as more farmers in the country wanted to cultivate the crop. Lack of improved palm oil seed varieties and ignorance of best practices among farmers and agricultural officers was among the factors affecting the performance of the vital subsector. Statistics show that Tanzania imports 365,000 metric tonnes of edible oil annually which costs the government at least 443bn/-. Palm oil is the most consumed edible oil in Tanzania due to its widespread availability and cost- effectiveness. In 2016, domestic edible oil consumption was estimated at 570,000 metric tonnes, 64 per cent of it being palm oil, 30 per cent sunflower and 2 per cent cottonseed oil.