MOROGORO, a municipality of about 500,000 people, is around 196km west of Dar es Salaam, and is the capital of Morogoro Region. It has always existed in the shadows of Dar es Salaam, not only on account of its smaller size, but also, and more important, Morogoro could not boast of having an ocean. It thus came to be known, jokingly, as “Mji kasoro bahari”, which translates roughly as: “A city (of some sorts), short of an ocean/port”. Close to 80 per cent of Morogoro’s water supply comes from the Mindu Dam on River Ngerengere. Building the dam, which started in 1978, was a major psychological boost for Morogoro lovers. The city could now claim to have an ocean, in the form of the expansive water body created after the construction of the dam. Ipso facto, it is a city just like Dar es Salaam. Since the construction of the Dam, the lake behind it has had its share of controversies: suspected of contributing to high rates of bilharzia infection, and suffering from mercury run-off from the gold-mining nearby, thus polluting Morogoro’s water supply. Moreover, the dam is being rapidly silted due to deforestation in the surrounding areas. So, all is not well at the Mindu Dam. This can be gauged from reading this front page news item in the Custodian (27 November), titled: “Mindu Dam besieged by irrigation farming”. The writer of the news item quotes the Director of the Morogoro Water Authority as complaining that: “invading ‘hitherlands’ of the dam by farmers drawn from regions like Singida, Kigoma, Mwanza and Dar es Salaam was harmful they have engaged workers to channel water for irrigation”. We could not find the word “hitherlands” in the dictionaries we have consulted, and we have taken the liberty of assuming that the writer had “hinterland” in mind. Hinterland is defined as the remote areas of a country away from the coast or the banks of major rivers”. In this case, the lands around Mindu Dam could be taken as its hinterlands. What seems to be happening is that, as a result of the diversion of water from the rivers feeding the Dam for irrigation, the water level of the dam has been receding. The writer quotes that Managing Director as saying further: “The dam’s depth was at a record low, ‘that has never been reached before’”. Now, if something is at a “record low”, it means it is at “the lowest amount or level that something has ever reached”. You can guess where I am leading to: If Mindu’s Dam’s level is at “a record low”, then the following words: “that has never been reached before” are tautological, irrelevant. The writer could drop “record”, or keep “record” and drop: ‘that has never been reached before. I would elect to drop “record” and have the sentence read as follows: “The dam’s level was at a low that has never been reached before’”. We agree with the Director’s observation that if this situation is not checked, it would render it impossible to ensure a steady water supply for the municipality and its environs. We leave the magic of Mindu Dam and turn to Geita from where a Custodian correspondent penned a story titled “Youth handed 30 year sentence for rape of Standard Six Pupil”. Here is part of the story: “The convict had on diverse dates between February and June this year enticed the girl and finally has his way and the two proceeded to have sexual relations several times in the bush, the magistrate ‘surmised’” Surely the magistrate did not surmise, otherwise, there was no basis for him to convict the boy. To surmise means “to suppose that something is true without having evidence to confirm it”. The magistrate had to have evidence proving beyond doubt that the boy had committed the felony before convicting him. It would appear that for: “the magistrate surmised”, the writer had “the magistrate summarized” in mind. Adieu November, welcome December. Wasn’t January only yesterday? lusuggakironde@gmail.com