THREE basketball teams depart Zanzibar today to Dodoma in readiness for the much-awaited CRDB Taifa Cup Championship to start on Thursday. According to Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) officials, more other teams from about 20 regions will be flocking in the capital city starting today. Rashid Hamza khamis, Vice chairman of Basketball Zanzibar (Baza) said in a statement that Unguja will be represented by both male and female teams while Pemba Island will be represented by men’s side. He said the whole entourage will involve 36 players, four coaches, three officials, one team doctor and a matron. The teams, according to him will ferry to Dar es Salaam before boarding a bus to Dodoma, beaming confidence to perform well. He has also thanked all those involved to make the teams travel to Dodoma, calling for an endless support to promote the island’s teams. The 10-day CRDB Taifa Cup Basketball Championship will involve of 24 male and 12 female teams competing for national honours. TBF’s president Phares Magesa has lauded CRDB bank for their timely support, saying that the bank has truly come for the development of the sport in the country. Other co-sponsors include Sanlam and Mayfair Insurance. The draw for the men’s team has the following teams in the groups: Group A teams are Ilala, Kilimanjaro, Tabora, Rukwa, Shinyanga and Katavi. Group B has Mbeya, Mwanza, Manyara, Kigoma, Coast Region and Kinondoni. Group C has Songwe, Dodoma, Morogoro, CRDB Youth (special team), Tanga and Mtwara. Group D has Temeke, Arusha, Iringa, Singida, Pemba and Unguja. The women’s grouping has only three groups, as follows; Group A has drawn together Ilala, Iringa, Morogoro and Coast Region while Group B has Temeke, Dodoma, Arusha and Singida. The teams in group C include Mbeya, Unguja, CRDB Youth ( special invited team) and Tanga ” We are all set for the tournament, thanks for CRDB bank for coming onboard to support us in accommodation, transport and other costs “, said Magesa. Basketball is one of the sporting events that has lacked massive financial support in recent years. The coming of CRDB, according to the bank’s manager of relations and information, Emmanuel Kiondo, will therefore stimulate the development of the sport as well as exposing young talents for their economic empowerment through sports. The opening fixture shows that hosts Dodoma women will play their Arusha counterparts in Group B before Dodoma men take on Morogoro in group C.