There is a bad notion that Karate promotes hooliganism. But for Sensei Jerome Mhagama, karate is for self defence and to defend others, apart from benefitting health and mental fitness. SULEIMAN JONGO speaks to the 5th Danned sensei Jerome on his way to the life of the martial art sport • • When and why did you take up karate? Jerome: The passion for martial arts came, like many kids after watching Bruce Lee or Karate Kid. Then you want to be like them. So when I was 10 years old, I was just going to the beach after school and following some youth who in an amateur way were doing some martial arts which, for now, I cannot even describe what was it. However, the real possibility to start serious martial arts came when I moved already to Dar es Salaam and it was in 1996 (so I was around 14 years old). I found one dojo where people were doing Taekwondo with serious sensei (instructor). I could not join them because I did not have money to pay the fee, but every day, 6 days per week, I was going there and watch how they practice, remember in my head as much as it is possible and then practice alone at home. One day this sensei seeing how I am consequently attending the classes and watch, he approached me and interviewed me to know me better and to check why every day I am there to watch them. After talking, he said that from tomorrow I have to come and start to attend the classes, to join them. When I told him I have no money, he said that I have free unlimited membership to his classes (this is why, nowadays, one of my rule in my dojo is, that you can come with the spirit and no money than with the money and no spirit, to pay back the chance which I got from that sensei, because I know how important is to help the young people who want but they cannot to do karate). Since that day, I started to practice taekwondo. However, just a few months when I started taekwondo I visited my friend who was doing Shotokan karate. I don’t know how he started and from where, but I know I was very interested in this martial art especially with kata and fighting style, the clean, precise movements. So when my taekwondo sensei became sick and couldn’t continue teaching me taekwondo I left taekwondo and I shifted to Shotokan karate, and this was the moment when I focused 100% only on that martial art. I was 19 years old at that time and already gained a black belt with the 1st Dan in taekwondo. Karate I had to start from white belt, from the beginning. After some time I shifted to a different dojo in the city centre. To this dojo, one day, Japanese sensei came from Japan. He was the one who put special attention on me and decided to train me not only in the dojo but also individually at his house. After some time he explained to me that he choose me because his goal was, on behalf of HQ from Japan to open the Japan Karate Association branch in Tanzania and according to him I am the only one through who they can do that. Soon after that, I opened my first own karate club and registered Japan Karate Association - World Federation Tanzania. • Who was your first teacher? Are you still training with him? Jerome: My first teacher was Ramadhani Agwa Sensei. Nowadays, he is focused on doing other things, but still comes to do my dojo to train together from time to time. • You said that most of your relatives opposed your decision to become a karateka. Why? And why did your mother support your decision? Jerome: My mother supported me from the beginning. She believed in me, she knew me and wanted me to pursue my passion. I think she did what most mothers do for their children. But when I was 18, she died and I had to support myself and my little sister. We were alone. It was my biggest challenge. Because life in Tanzania is not easy. If you are born into a poor family, the goal is to find a job that is practical and allows you to earn the money for food. Karate at that time was a privilege. My relatives could not support me. Instead, they were trying to convince me to find a normal job. I did not resign. I found a way to live with Karate, survive and even educate my sister. • Does your sensei teach karate for a living? Are you also a professional karate teacher? Is it easy to earn a living by teaching karate in your country? Jerome: Karate is my way of life. And the source of my family’s livelihood. It’s not easy to earn a living teaching karate. This is not a priority in a country as poor as Tanzania, where the average living per person is a few dollars. The price for a lesson in Tanzania is up to 70,000/-. Only the richest can afford it. It’s a small percentage. My dojo is open to everyone. Who can pay it, and those who can not pay, the only thing I require from them is to contribute to the rent of the dojo. In my dojo, I have richer and poor people, but loyal and disciplined. The former help the latter. We are Family. For many of my students, karate is a way to live a better life, escape from life on the street is a chance to get a good job, for example as a bodyguard. My students are currently occupying the best security positions in the country. As a result, my earnings are irregular and uncertain. But can you give up on it? It all depends on what standard of living you put on. We do not go on vacation with my wife. I can’t afford training in Japan. But we live with my family a good life. We repeat that as long as we pay the bills, we eat and stay healthy. We are lucky. • When did you gain your 1st dan? Who was your examiner? How fast did you get your 5th dan? Jerome: I gained my ShoDan in 2004 under Yushi Fujii Sensei. In 2005, I gained my Ni-Dan, 2007 I gained my San-Dan under Stan Schmidt Sensei in Johannesburg, South Africa. Yon-Dan was in Pattaya Thailand during Gichin Funakoshi World Karate-Do Championships under JKA/ WF- HQ Masters in 2011. After training very hard, in 2016 I managed to gain my Go-Dan under Koichiro Okuma Sensei in Nairobi, Kenya. Looking forward for my Roku-Dan after 2022. I am not rushing to it, but I know it is hard to get it and so I have to prepare very well. • You consider karate as a self-defence skill rather than just a sport. Do you think that your students (including the albino boys) would be able to use it in case of an aggression? Jerome: First of all, everyone has access to my dojo: children, youth, elders, man and women. However, karate is the martial art that shapes not only a body but also mind. There is no karate without karate philosophy of karate-do. There are among all the five basic maxims of karate:1. Character 2. Sincerity 3. Effort 4. Etiquette 5. Selfcontrol. These maxims help to create a good behaviour with respect to others. Young people, especially the ones with no perspective for good future, they need to find good direction, good authority, and good philosophy of life to not find themselves among drug dealers, thieves or any other criminals. Karate gives discipline, good character and strength to say ‘no’ while facing dangerous situation in their life. Thus, in the case of people with albinism, they have to face their insecurity and their fear. Selfdefence is not only a physical defence against the aggressor, but also the ability to get out of the shadows, set limits that the aggressor has no right to cross. So, I believe, after having all this basic knowledge they will be able to face any an aggression challenge. • Did you choose Shotokan Jka by chance? Are other karate styles popular in your country? What do you think about Wkf sport karate and “Olympic karate”? Jerome: I have chosen Shotokan JKA because of Yushi Fujii Sensei, who was a volunteer for the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to Tanzania. I was doing Shotokan before, but not JKA Shotokan. It was just Shotokan with no organization. Yes! In Tanzania we have several Karate styles that are also popular. Most of them are doing well and we cooperate very well on different levels. About WKF Sport Karate. Competition is fully OK, since it allow to get some experience and develop the skills. I was also participating in a different Karate competition in my past and I really appreciate this time, because it gave me some different experience. However, some representatives who participate in WKF tournaments do not represent real Dojo Kun. In my opinion, their attitude is very questionable. Very important thing is that Sport Karateka should not quit Karate after competition time, since as Karate -”Do” is much more interesting. Olympic Karate was the dream of many Karatekas in the World. It was a dream that became a reality at the moment, so every Karateka should be proud of this achievement. It is a step in the right direction for each of us right now. • You said that karate is “full of tools to face life” and that “it makes you a better person”. This is certainly true for you, but do you think it applies to everyone? Don’t you know any “karate bullies”? Jerome: I would like this line of thinking to be shared by everyone who do any Martial Arts. However, we know that this is not always the case. Even in Tanzania. I mentioned that my dojo is open to everyone, but I also mentioned that money is not a priority in it. Thus, it gives me the comfort of selecting people who enter my dojo. It happened several times that ignorant people tried to use martial arts for stupid things. It soon came to light, we ended our cooperation with such a person very quickly. I stay away from anyone who tries to harm me, but I always react when they try to harm Karate. • Are the two boys who were not allowed to compete in the tournament still training? How did they react to the disappointment? Jerome: They reacted very maturely. They were disappointed but understood it was for their own good. The wounds on their body were fresh, it would be very easy to get an infection. The boys do not have professional medications that they can use to heal their skin. We believe that we will get good quality medicines through our organizations, and then the boys will be able to easily train kumite. But such situations happen notoriously. One of the best karatekas in our dojo, sensei Mikidadi Kilindo, who is 4th dan, cannot practice kumite, due to the fact that he has a cataract in his one eye. He cannot see with one eye, and with the other eye is partially blind. Thus, during the last exams, sensei Koichiro Okuma refused him to do kumite. But this does not prevent him from being a great karateka with the Japanese given nickname “Ganchan”. This is part of the karate philosophy. You have to be humble and accept decisions humbly. It shapes the character. In Africa it is not difficult, we have a society where the elders are right and should be listened to. A bit like in Japan. • Have you ever met any Japanese sensei’s? Did any of them ever give a demonstration in your country? Have you ever been to Japan or are you planning a trip to the Jka headquarters in Tokyo? Jerome: I’ve been to Japan 3 times. In 2010, 2013 and 2014. My last stay was special for me, because I was attending 13th Funakoshi Gichin Cup Karate World Championship as a Judge. Interestingly, I was told, that I was the youngest judge in JKA’s history. That time I was 33. During all these visits, I met most of the Japanese senseis. Many of them invited me to train in their dojo. It was an incredible honour for me. Sensei Koichiro Okuma flew to Tanzania twice, he conducted Gasshuku in 2016 and 2017. Personally, I have a plan to go to Japan next year. • Is your dream of building a dojo becoming true? How do you find the financial resources? Jerome: The dojo is our dream and currently our biggest challenge. Our NGO is now struggling to obtain funding for the purchase of land and the construction of the dojo. But dojo is just the beginning. We want to build a complex around the dojo. Thus, this will be place, where not only martial arts classes will be conducted. This place will give our children with albinism a space that aim to improve their own rights, as well as treatment options and hygiene (for example first aid, human rights courses, children rights courses); computer trainings, cultural classes (paintings, graphic design, music, photography). We are currently working on the project and financing. Luigi Maria Perotti and his wife Gianna Angelini, who are Ambassadors of our organization, support us a lot here. But we will also look for support among the karate family. Thus, anyone willing to help is very welcome. This will be the only real dojo in Tanzania. Soon our organization will publish the project plan. On our website, which is still under construction, you will be able to obtain all the information. However, if someone wants to know more, they can come to me anytime. • How does your government and the public opinion react to your decision to stand up for the albino kid and the victims of prejudice and superstition? Do you think that their situation will slowly improve in your country? Jerome: Tanzania was famous for its hunting people with albinism. But it’s not that all Tanzanians are bad. The vast majority of Tanzanians were ashamed of what was happening to our albino brothers and sisters here. Many of them support us. But how many attackers do you need to lose your hand or your life. One bad person is enough to kill an albino child. Moreover, the victims were children precisely because they could not defend themselves. In an attempt to protect the fleeing children and adults with albinism, the government designated temporary holding shelters with a few runs by faith-based organizations. But still a lot must be done. • How has karate changed your life? How important is your wife in supporting you? Jerome: I have to highlight the most. Many thanks to my wife. She decided to come to Tanzania and live in a difficult environment because of believing in what I am doing. To me, she is everything and she is the person who keeps me in check. She is also CoFounder of New Heroes Youth Development Organization and is an instrumental in ensuring that the NGO is established and well managed. Before I got married, My only supporter from my family in my karate was my mother. She died when I needed her big support in my karate career, I was 18 years old. I stayed with no help and support from my family. I was alone with my 14 years old sister that needs to eat and go to school. I had to resign from school and start to work to find money for food and school fees for my sister. It was a very hard life and very often we were going to sleep hungry. I was waking up not knowing if I will eat something today. Karate saved me, not only because I started to teach and earn some money, but also Karate gave me strength. Karate was the only way of life. Thanks to karate I didn’t find myself in any dangerous stupid situations. While many of my friends became drug dealers or criminals, I managed to build my future only by my own effort. •Is there anything you would like to say to all karatekas in general? Jerome: First of all on behalf of JKA / WF-Tanzania and the Sensei Jerome and his passion to karate BRIEFS Cyprus, Sunday Former Ryder Cup star Jamie Donaldson found a finalhole birdie to take a one-shot advantage into the final round of the Aphrodite Hills Cyprus Open. The three-time European Tour winner took advantage of the par-five 18th for the third round running to close out a two-under 69 at the Aphrodite Hills Resort, taking him to 14 under and atop a congested leaderboard. Overnight co-leader Marcus Armitage is in the group of five players a shot off the pace in a share of second, with 20 players heading into the final day within four strokes of the lead. “I played nicely today, have played good for three rounds,” Donaldson said. “Tomorrow is the most important day, so tomorrow is the day I need to produce my best golf if I’m going to win. There are a lot of guys up there. I just need to go out there and play as well as I can play.” Donaldson fires to the third round of Cyprus Cup JAMIE Donaldson Vienna, Sunday The British No 1 fell in straight sets to the lucky loser, who defeated world No 1 Novak Djokovic in the quarter-finals; Lorenzo Sonego will meet Russian Andrey Rublev in the final on Sunday Dan Evans was defeated by Lorenzo Sonego 6-3 6-4 in the Erste Bank Open semi-finals, as the Italian backed up his impressive quarter-final victory over Novak Djokovic. The British No 1 reached his second ATP semi-final in a row with a 7-6 (7-3) 4-6 6-3 win against Grigor Dimitrov, but didn’t replicate those heights against Sonego. He was broken in his first service game of the match by the world No 42. After that, he was unable to restore order as his Italian opponent continued where he left off against Djokovic. Sonego’s route to the semi-final, and now final, is a remarkable one as he actually lost his final qualifying match ahead of the competition. Dan Evans defeated by Lorenzo Sonego in Erste Bank Open semi-finals SENSEI Jerome Mhagama, who holds 5 dans in karate rankings, demonstrates to one of karate trainees with albinism during his recent classes. Photo by Suleiman Jongo New Heroes Youth Development Organization, I would like to thank all the members of this page for supporting us in the social work we do through Karate. Secondly, I call on the Karatekas especially Senseis all over the world, to use the profession of Karate to serve the community around them according to the needs of that community. There are many challenges in our societies and I strongly believe that we as Karatekas have a great potential to change the world in a positive way. Through the power of the Individual in parallel with the Karate philosophy, we can do great things for our communities. The important thing is to have a dedicated heart for people in need. OSS!