THE government has commended the Board of Governors and the management of the Mweka College of Wildlife Management Mweka (CAWM-Mweka) for immediately implementing President Dr John Magufuli’s directive to establish wildlife butchers in the country. The praises were sounded in Moshi, Kilimanjaro region, over the weekend by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Aloyce Nzuki during the 56th graduation ceremony of the college, which were held at the college’s grounds. “I am happy to hear that following the President’s directive you have embarked on plans to establish wildlife ranches; this is a major step in implementing the President’s directive”, he said. Dr Nzuki promised the college’s leadership his ministry’s cooperation in implementing the establishment of the ranches by providing the necessary support needed. He also commended the CAWM-Mweka leadership for introducing new programmes which he said would help in solving various conservation and wildlife management challenges. “I would like to congratulate the college for this important step; It is my belief that employers and other tourism stakeholders will see these new programmes as an opportunity to enhance their professional capacity to increase operational efficiency”, he said. He called upon all institutions falling under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism to organise and ensure that their employees benefit from these programmes once they are introduced. Earlier, the CAWM-Mweka Rector, Prof Jaffari Kideghesho, said in implementing the President’s directive, the college had started plans to introduce a Professional Hunting Course. “The college has also started contacting the leadership of Chemba District Council, in Dodoma region so as to acquire land which will be used for the establishment of a wildlife ranch that will be used for training as well as an investment for the college”, he said. “In addition, we have also taken into account the directive of His Excellency the President of the United Republic of Tanzania he provided on October 10, 2019, when he urged the responsible ministry to create an environment that will enable citizens access wildlife meat for consumption”, he added. He added, “The expectations of our college is that the ranch we are planning to establish will be a demonstration farm for Tanzanians who are interested in taking advantage of the opportunity provided by the Government to establish wildlife ranches and wildlife meat business”. “On behalf of the CAWMMweka community, I would like to congratulate Mr President as we acknowledge that he has done Justice to the natural resources and tourism sectors; We understand how he has overcome the chronic challenges of poaching, which threatened the presence of the wildlife especially elephants in a very short period and that is why we are making every effort to improve our college so as to compliment his efforts”, he said. Prof Kideghesho said that during the 2020 graduation ceremony, a total of 388 students graduated from various courses provided by the college which brought the number of students who have so far graduated from the college to more than 9,000 since its inception.