AS Tanzania joins the world to mark ‘16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence’, the development and advocacy organisation (DSW Tanzania) has mobilised stakeholders to fight against gender-based violence (GBV) in Arusha. Senior leaders from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children as well as Arusha Region praised the organisation for its campaign against GBV, including raising awareness among girls aged 14-24 years and enabling them to engage in economic activities. Acting Director of Gender Department in the Ministry of Health (Community Development) Erasto Ching’oro commended DSW Tanzania for fighting against GBV, including female genital mutilation (FGM) and building the capacity of girls to start activities that would continue even after the project. DSW Tanzania has been empowering girls in different areas like reproductive health, economy and leadership and the director called on the organisation to motivate and educate the youth on self-awareness, self-esteem and inspiration to work professionally and contribute to the prosperity and development of the nation. Mr Ching’oro was speaking at Tengeru during the closing of a working session organised by DSW Tanzania as part of the ‘16 Days of Activism Against GBV’ and activities that the girls had been trained in, including entrepreneurship. The session brought together the youth, government officials from different departments, United Nation Education Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) and journalists. This year’s theme of ‘16 Days of Activism’ is “Let Us Fight Gender Violence: Changes Start With Me”. “I have been comforted also that through this project, DSW Tanzania has been able to conduct preliminary studies. Your creativity in identifying the root cause of the problem, including harmful traditions and customs, is important. Hence, we should continue addressing pressing issues, knowing that community participation is very important in addressing challenges facing society,” advised Mr Ching’oro. The ministry commended DSW Tanzania for its strategies in the project to empower girls to understand challenges in FGM and GBV generally. They now know how to protect themselves and impart the skills they have acquired to other members of the community around them. They have also set up several groups that DSW Tanzania has empowered them. Arusha Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Richard Kwitega was thrilled by a discussion organised by DSW Tanzania and strategies proposed for more action to ensure GBV was brought to an end sooner than later. Mr Kwitega, who is also Regional Chairman of the National Plan of Action to end Violence against Women and Children in Tanzania 2017/18-2021/22-NPA-VAWC), noted that in 2019/20 1,302 women were subjected to GBV acts, while the number of children stood at 1,256 and boys at 171. He said that translated into an increase in such acts by 22 per cent compared to 2018/9 figures in Arusha. He called on all stakeholders to take a leaf from DSW Tanzania and join forces with the government in the fight against GBV and attain sustainable development goals.