WORLD leaders have continued to salute Dr John Magufuli following his re-election as President of Tanzania, with India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Sultan of Oman, His Majesty Sultan Haitham Bin Tariq Al Said, becoming the latest leaders to offer their congratulatory messages. In his message extended yesterday, India Prime Minister Modi said that he looks forward to working with President Magufuli to further strengthen the long standing friendship between the two countries. “My congratulations to President Magufuli for being sworn in as president of Tanzania,” he wrote in his Tweet. The Sultan of Oman in his hearty remarks congratulated President Magufuli and the people of Tanzania in general following his remarkable victory in the recent national General Election which allows him to lead the country for another term in office. “Your victory is a pure testimony of the trust and confidence that the people of Tanzania have on your leadership and performance to steer the country in the right direc tion during the previous term of 5 years. We wish you well in this endeavour,” he said. In another congratulatory message from Chinese President Xi Jinping to President Magufuli’s re-election, the Chinese leader said China and Tanzania are all-weather good friends, good partners and good brothers saying their relations have been developing steadily, and bilateral exchanges and cooperation in various fields continue to achieve new results. President Xi said that the two sides have supported and helped each other in jointly combatting the Covid- 19 pandemic. “I give great importance to the development of China- Tanzania relations, and I am ready to work with President Magufuli in promoting greater progress of China- Tanzania comprehensive cooperative partnership, so as to bring more benefits to the two countries and its people,” president Xi said. President Magufuli and Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan took oath of office separately in Dodoma’s Jamhuri Stadium on Thursday, in a ceremony that was witnessed by thousands of Tanzanians and foreign dignitaries. President Dr Magufuli swore to faithfully execute the office and to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution. The ceremony marked the second time an inauguration day fell on Thursday, November 5, and the first ever staged in the designated capital city of Dodoma. His first inauguration back in 2015 took place on a similar date and day. Dr Magufuli won re-election with a landslide victory in the October 28th, 2020 General Election with 84 per cent of the votes. Administered by Chief Justice Ibrahim Hamisi Juma, the swearing-in was also witnessed by Chief Secretary John Kijazi amidst scores of people, visiting presidents and other dignitaries present on the occasion. After the oath-taking, President Magufuli insisted that the election was over and that it is time to build the nation. The Head of State stressed that Tanzanians need to work hard to ensure all development programmes are implemented and achieved as planned. He implored Tanzanians to forget about the past election and concentrate on building the nation. “The election is over, I repeat, the election is over...our big task ahead is to work hard for the development of our nation,” he emphasized. Dr Magufuli said his government will immediately work on major development issues as promised during election campaigns.