NATIONAL U-20 ‘Ngorongoro Heroes skipper, Kelvin John celebrates his third goal with Ben Starkle (second left) during their CECAFA U-20 Championship match at Black Rhino Academy Stadium in Arusha. Kelvin John scored the second hat-trick for Heroes who defeated Somalia 8-1.. (Photo courtesy of TFF website) TANZANIA Under-20 team ‘Ngorongoro Heroes' gallantly sailed to the CECAFA U-20 Championship semis after handing Somalia a 8-1 blitz in a one sided match at Black Rhino Academy Stadium in Karatu. The Brave Boys will now face the best loser of the group stage in a match to be staged here on Monday. The best from the team was Kelvin John who netted a hat-trick to become the second player after Suleiman Abdul, who sealed the first hat-trick in the opening match against Djibouti. Kelvin John scored his goals in the 28th, 34th and 60th minutes of the game. Other ther goals were netted by Abdul Hamis, Ben Starker and Anuari Jabir while Sahal Muhumed scored the consolation goal for his Somalia. Ngorongoro Heroes are the top of the Group A having stamped six points and 14 goals for while they have let the ball behind their net two times. They began their campaign with 6-1 victory over Djibouti at the same Black Rhino Academy Stadium last Sunday. At the Group A’s second place are Djibouti who have collected three points after recording a 2-1 win over Somalia at the same venue on Tuesday. Djibouti will have to wait for the results of group B and C to see if they can progress to semis as the best loser. Ngorongoro Heroes Head Coach, Jamhuri Kihwelu lauded his boys for the stellar performance as his target is to qualify for AFCON Under-20 finals. This will only be possible if Tanzania win their semifinals game and progress to the final. In Group B, Uganda are placed at the top with four points after registering a 6-1 victory over Burundi and a barren draw with South Sudan. The second is South Sudan who will face Burundi in the last encounter. Incase South Sudan win, it will command the group and if not they will fight for the best loser’s post. Group C is commanded by Kenya who have carved three points in hand similar with Ethiopia, but superior goal average makes them superior over the Ethiopians. Kenya collected there points after defeating Ethiopia 3-0 at Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium in Arusha while Ethiopia on their side, beat Sudan 3-2 on Thursday. Kenya remains with one game to complete the group stage and are favourites to win it . The winner of Group B will face Group C leader while Ngorongoro will face the best loser.