THE Tanzania Startup Association (TSA) has partnered with the Global Entrepreneurship Network Tanzania to launch the global entrepreneurship week 2020 as platform to promote entrepreneurship in the country. “TSA is excited to co-host GEW along with GEN Tanzania and our other members and partners across Tanzania,” stated the statement issued in Dar es Salaam on Monday. This year’s global entrepreneurship week 2020 has a priority on women entrepreneurs. The statement said further that as President John Magufuli pledged some 8 million jobs, entrepreneurship is one of the initiatives that will play crucial role in creating new employments. “Thus we are here to promote and celebrate entrepreneurship as one of key ways to secure jobs and grow our economy,” said the statement. An annual international initiative, which started in 2008 to introduce entrepreneurship to young people across six continents in 168 countries, has attracted the participation of more than 10 million people worldwide. According to GEW calendar, over the course of the week which started on Monday to the end of the week across the world in 165 different countries, including Tanzania, there will be different events across Tanzania both in cities and rural areas to make sure entrepreneurs from different parts get to engage in workshops, trainings, meetings and debate about their work. With scheduled events in Mbeya, Mwanza, Dodoma, Arusha, DSM, Zanzibar, Kisarawe, though focus is on Women entrepreneurship for this year, but some events will include even children and youths. On the other hand, the TPSF chairperson Ms. Angelina Ngalula said “I am happy for the recognition of women in entrepreneurship and this platform being used to address the challenges that women faces, I promise to continue work with TSA at TPSF to ensure that we push entrepreneurship and early stage businesses sector forward” The global entrepreneurship week is co-hosted by TSA, Global Entrepreneurship Network Tanzania and other entrepreneurship stakeholders in Tanzania.