TANZANIA Meat Board (TMB) has urged Councils and abattoirs owners in their respective areas to abide by rules and regulations, which task them to release only quality and safe meat to the public. Speaking on Tuesday in Dar es Salaam, TMB Registrar, Mr Imani Sichalwe said that operations in slaughterhouses should continue, but will involve penalties to operators, who will fail to abide by the given rules. “The operation will continue targeting butcheries operating below standards in a bid to improve hygiene and protect meat consumers in the country,” he said. He said there have been challenges where some slaughterhouses have been operating with poor infrastructures, thus making their products unhealthy and unsafe. “The inspections of the abattoir are ongoing and in Dar es Salaam Region people have begun to be motivated to build modern abattoirs,” he said. Elaborating, Mr Sichalwe mentioned some areas in Sumbawanga, Monduli and Tengeru districts, where some slaughterhouses have been operating contrary to the rules. The government ensures in all abattoirs there should be professional veterinary experts to check the quality before and after slaughtering. He also advised eating meat because it contains a lot of proteins in the human body where it helps to grow the brain and make stimulants of various hormones. According to studies one is advised to eat 50 kg of meat per year of which at least one kilogramme per week. Mr Sichalwe said that the meat factories being built in various parts will help to produce better products where it will be able to promote meat trade locally and internationally. The main objective of the Board is to spearhead the restructuring of the Meat Industry, to establish a proper basis for its efficient management, to ensure provision of high-quality meat products and for matters related to the development of the Meat Industry. The Board is working in close collaboration with various meat industry stakeholders including livestock producers, traders, processors, quality control institutes, regulatory organs, consumers and service providers to reorganise the industry for efficient and effective production of high-quality meat products.