PRESIDENT John Magufuli has appealed to religious leaders and fellow Tanzanians to pray for the nation as well as the government to implement pledges he made during the campaigns. Speaking at the Catholic Church of Mary Immaculate Parish in the capital city of Dodoma, Dr Magufuli said his CCM formed government pledged to implement promises contained in their 2020/25 election manifesto, which targets to build a strong economy and improve social welfare. President Magufuli, accompanied by his wife, Janeth made the appeal when he joined other Christians for Sunday services at the church, and equally thanked the worshippers for their initiative to fundraise money for construction of the Chamwino Mosque that he also recently launched and now in operation. Elaborating, he also expressed his gratitude to other believers, not necessarily Muslims, who donated towards the construction of the institution as well as the Bikira Maria Imakulata Church located near Chamwino State House. “This act demonstrates unity, love and true solidarity among Tanzanians,” he pointed out. During the launching of the Mosque, last month, the Head of State cheered the unity and solidarity demonstrated by fellow Tanzanians, regardless of one’s religious belief and completed its construction. The mosque was built with the budget raised through a fundraising led by Dr Magufuli in August, this year when he launched the Mary Immaculate Parish in Chamwino. Named after Chief Sheikh, Mufti Abubakar Zubery bin Ally, the mosque was built by Tanzania National Service, JKT within two months at a cost of 319.2m/-. Dr Magufuli equally noted that the construction and completion of the Mosque’s building was a clear manifestation of love and peace existing between Tanzanians, despite their religious differences. “The money that was spent in the construction of this Mosque was raised in the Church…. where we got contributions from people from different religious beliefs. This is the true love that can only be seen in Tanzania,” he said. However, he asked Tanzanians to continue with the same spirit, adding that religion should not divide people into factions, because interaction between various religious groups was important in nation building. In a related development, President Magufuli took the opportunity to thank all worshippers for praying to the nation during the General Election, saying: “The campaign trails and final swearing-in collectively are victories for all Tanzanians.” Meanwhile, it was all smiles for about 4,000 residents in Manyara Region, when they were finally provided with power within a short period after a directive from President John Magufuli, reports Mariam Juma in Babati. In the course, 520 electric poles were shipped to Babati town by Qwihaya General Company of Mufindi, Iringa region as a process in the connection of electricity to the residents. In the directive, President Magufuli ordered the Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, to make sure they speed up the power connection exercise in the area. On her part, TANESCO Manyara Regional Manager, Engineer Rehema Mashinji, said the poles were brought the area by the end of last month, adding that the local company did a great work in shipping them to the locations within a short stint. “I thank President Magufuli, Minister Kalemani and the Head of TANESCO at national level for the concerted efforts put in this issue, especially the quick measure to act and implement the president’s directive,” she added. Elaborating, Engineer Mashinji noted that her office supported the work, especially in loading the poles in right places, where the residents are located and paid 27,000/- as connection fees to be provided with power. Commenting on the work, Ms Mwanjaa Hamisi a resident from Dagailoi Street in Babati Town commended the government for the exercise implemented within a short time. “With this speed, we are sure that in few days everybody will be happy and we will be connected to power and we are going to have a wonderful Christmas,” said Ms Hamisi.