THE importance of women’s equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision making needs to be recognised as an ardent necessity in ministerial cabinet positions that respect a gender parity principle for the country’s development and transformation. As a nation, Tanzania has made important strides in advancing gender equality and women’s participation in leadership and decisionmaking. The 2020 general election saw an unprecedented number of women vie for political leadership at council, parliamentary and presidential level. Following the general election, women are already present in key leadership positions, with Her Excellency Samia Suluhu Hassan continuing as Vice-President for a second term, and Hon Tulia Ackson and Hon Mgeni Hassan Juma retaining their Deputy Speaker roles for the National Assembly and Zanzibar House of Representatives (ZHoR), respectively. The proportion of women in the National Assembly is currently at 37.15 per cent, a slight decrease from 37.8 per cent in the previous Parliament. The previous cabinet had 4 women ministers and 5 deputy ministers, a proportion of 22.5 per cent. In Zanzibar, there were 5 women ministers, constituting 29 per cent of the cabinet. With over 130 women parliamentarians in the National Assembly and a strong pool of candidates in the ZHoR as well, there is the great potential for the establishment of 50/50 cabinets in both Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar. As a member state of the African Union, Tanzania has committed to the gender parity principle for equal representation of men and women at all decision-making levels in line with Agenda 2063 ‘The Africa We Want’. The commitment to full gender equality in decisionmaking, including in cabinets, is also the aspiration of regional and international frameworks which Tanzania is a party, including the SADC Protocol and Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. Agenda 2063 envisages an Africa that is people centred and a gender equal place where women are empowered to play their rightful role in all spheres of life, while the Sustainable Development Goals affirm the importance of women’s equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. In line with this, some African countries have already achieved gender equal cabinets, including Ethiopia, Rwanda and South Africa. These commitments, and the steps taken by other countries are not just for the sake of having women represented, but because gender equality is crucial for good governance, and the betterment of society as a whole. According to studies, increasing women in public leadership can lead to reducing inequality and increased confidence in national governments. It has been proven that the presence of more women in ministerial cabinets has been linked with the higher prioritisation of public health and education, as well as other sectors that are key to national wellbeing. Achieving gender parity in the ministerial cabinets will only reinforce the country’s commitment to inclusive governance, policy making and service delivery by reflecting the diversity of our population. Furthermore, given their high visibility, more women in ministerial positions help change public perceptions of what a leader looks like and serve as role models for other women. As women ministers increasingly prove their capability to deliver on various portfolios, discriminatory mindsets that persist in communities across the country are changing and more and more women are getting inspired to take on leadership roles across sectors. It is on this basis that the African Women Leaders Network Tanzania chapter urges the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, His Excellency John Magufuli and the President of Zanzibar, His Excellency Hussein Mwinyi, to extend the commitment of the Governments to advance gender equality by significantly increasing the appointment of women in ministerial and other key leadership roles in the public sector. We commend the great progress made and commitment demonstrated to increasing women’s voice in decision-making thus far. As a network that seeks to empower Tanzanian women leaders for the transformation of the nation, promoting women’s political leadership is a key priority for African Women Leaders Network (AWLN) Tanzania and we are committed to working with the government, women’s rights organisations and all stakeholders to amplify the voices of women leaders and significantly increase the role of women in leadership and politics. We aspire to see 50:50 representation in key decision-making organs, including the representation of young women and women with disabilities, and our hope is that this will be the year that we will see a significant increase in the number of women ministers because it is the right thing to do. Women are powerful agents of change, and their participation in all decision-making organs is essential for an effective, sustainable and inclusive society. - African Women Leaders Network Tanzania Chapter