TAIFA Stars Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije has expressed his belief that his side will take full use of home ground advantage to win their re- verse fixture against Tunisia at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. The country’s envoys lost 0-1 to Tunisia in the unfolding Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) group J qualifiers held on Friday night at Stade Olympique de Rades in Tunis to make the second leg match a must win encounter for them. Taifa Stars displayed a solid defensive play backed by goalkeeper Aishi Manula who had a good game on the day, denying the hosts a couple of perfect scoring chances they sourced throughout the tense match. But, speaking after the game, Ndayiragije was sure that his charges will bounce back strongly in the upcoming match to claim vital three points which is what they need most at the moment to revamp hopes of reaching in the finals of the elite contest. “I can say it was a tough game to both sides and the fact that they scored via a spot kick simply shows how difficult the game was. “My team tried to push but could not manage to score. We still have some minor things to add to the squad ahead of our next game for us to do better and I am sure that we will achieve that,” said he. He added: “For now, we will have to scrutinise well our opponents to see where we can hold them while playing at our home ground.” However, another Stars player who has received overwhelming congratulations by supporters via social media outlets was veteran defender Erasto Nyoni who partnered with Bakari Mwamnyeto to make a concrete defence. Nyoni, who missed the past FIFA international friendly match against Burundi and has lately experienced decimal playing time at his club Simba executed his responsibilities well making full use of his defending skills to contain venom players from the hosting side. It seemed the club chemistry between goalkeeper Manula and Nyoni bore tangible fruits as the duo have been playing together for a long time hence they brought together their relationship to surprise Tunisia, one of the best teams on the continent. “I am confident we will get something from the players back home. I have noted a few mistakes from the game in Tunisia and I am sure we will do well in the return leg. The game which will be witnessed by about 30,000 football supporters.” The third victory extends Tunisia’s 100-per cent record in the Africa Cup of Nations qualifying campaign, and they can book their place in Cameroon’s 2022 finals if they win again in Dar es Salaam. Stars will continue to miss the services of their skipper Mbwana Samatta in the Tuesday fixture as he will be nursing injury he picked while in action for his Turkish topflight league side Fenerbahce. With the outcome, Tunisia still lead group J with 9 points after winning all their three games, Equatorial Guinea who beat Libya 3-2 are second with 3 points followed by Libya and Tanzania also with each having 3 points.