YOUNG Africans will next week send delegation to Spain to collect the initial report of guidelines that will show them a path to follow towards transformation. Yanga have partnerd with La Liga and Spanish giants Sevilla to help them with necessary procedures to follow as they want to transform the operation of the club to go in line with the modern world. However, addressing members of the media here was the club's advisor on transformation matters Senzo Mazingiza who said the report is now complete and will be collected next week. "At first, we expected the report to be done by August but due to a lot of work involved to compile it, they failed to deliver it on time. "As such, on Monday or Tuesday, our delegation will travel to Spain to personally be taken through the report and thereafter bring it home for further analysis with all concerned stakeholders," he said. He added that it was impossible to let them send the report via email because it is very comprehensive hence the travelling delegation will first be taken through it step by step for thorough understanding. "As a club, we are excited to reach this far hence during the first week of December, the club's Executive Committee (EXCOM) under the chairmanship of Mshindo Msolla will have the report on their desk. "Thereafter, deliberations on it will begin involving all essential stakeholders to ensure that the entire process is transparent since it talks to our need and goals of the club," remarked Mazingiza. About the progress of Kigamboni project, he applauded the construction committee which was unveiled to design it for delivering what he said a fully-fledged document on how to undertake the project. "The tender for construction works to start in Kigamboni was officially announced on Thursday as such, people should come to buy tender documents and bid for the project," he said. According to him, the first phase will involve construction of artificial and natural training facilities plus hostels and administration blocks while the second phase will see construction of swimming pools, recreation areas, parking area and many others. Again, he pointed out that the club has come up with a new way of fundraising event called Yanga Marathon of which he narrated that they plan to organise it in four quarters with the first quarter done in Dar es Salaam, the second quarter probably in Mwanza and other regions which will be proposed. He also seized the chance to confirm that the club's Rwandan player Haruna Niyonzima was recently involved in a road accident in his native country but that he escaped unhurt and he is doing very well. In another development, Yanga paraded Haji Mfikirwa as the new Acting General Secretary replacing Simon Patrick who has been suspended to pave way for investigations.