WITHIN two years at least 185 councils with 5381 health facilities have been reached in the recently established public-private -partnership system aimed at strengthening health supply chain in Tanzania. Presenting a paper during the just ended 7th Tanzania Health Summit, Head of Health Commodities and Diagnostic Services Unit in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Mathew Mganga, and Jazia PVS said forces have been joined to provide population with health items, they seem to lack. The system dubbed ‘Jazia Prime Vendor System (Jazia PVS)’ responds to addressing shortage of medicines and simplifying procurement as it supplements Medical Stores Department (MSD) with supplies from a single vendor, in a pooled regional approach. Jazia PVS is cost-effective because it is anchored in existing structures like infrastructure and staff, and it joins forces with MSD to provide the population with health supplies. He said MSD is the national supplier of public health facilities in the country, adding that the medicines ordered have never reached 100 per cent due to various reasons. According to Mganga, Jazia PVS has replaced a lengthy, bureaucratic and hence has become transparent in procurement practices, besides being formalised and innovative in PPP model. He cited the achievements of the strategy as the rolled out throughout the country in 2018, where 26 regions were reached by a privately contracted vendor, and 14 more by other different privately hired firms covering 185 councils of 5381 health facilities and meeting 51,400,000 people. He added that the role of the private sector is to enhance regulated, cost and in a quality conscious manner with an average monthly procurement volume of 2.3bn/- from PVS that assists MSD to fulfil ever increasing orders challenges. “The objectives of PVS is to complement MSD supply, improve availability of health commodities at health facilities and improve transparency and accountability for public funds” he said, adding that they also reduce the time taken for delivery of medicines and other products. Elaborating, Mr Mganga noted that the main challenge in the strategy is insufficient adherence to standard operating procedures and contractual terms by both users and vendors. Mr Mganga said the government aims to improve the health of all Tanzanians, especially those at risk, and to increase life expectancy by providing health services to meet their needs. In so doing, medicines and other health commodities are critical building blocks of the health system and should always be available, he stated, adding, “Access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines for all is a central component of Universal Health Coverage (UHC)”. He observed that in effort to improve the system, there are a circular, standard operation procedures, as well as monitoring and evaluation framework guide operations in place. Mr Mganga also told the gathering that national guidelines have been reviewed by stakeholders and await signature. A study, he said has shown high acceptability among supply chain actors as accountability plays an important role in the PVS. One of the key partners in the Jazia Prime Vendors is the Health Promotion and System Strengthening (HPSS) project which strives to improve quality and utilisation of health services in the Dodoma region. At the same time, HPSS is cultivating an effective, wellgoverned, accessible health care system that can be scaled up to a national level.