GOVERNMENT has extended the tenure of hunting blocks to 2022 to accommodate tourists mostly coming from countries still fighting Covid-19. The move seeks to increase tourism activities and revenue in the sub-sector. Those changes have been made following amendments and enactment of new regulations imposed after the emergency of the pandemic. “Other changes made are an extension of hunting season from the previous six months to 12 months without changing the quota,” Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism Permanent Secretary Dr Aloyce Nzuki said in Morogoro on Sunday. He said another regulation amended was allowing companies to participate in the auctioning of hunting blocks without having to register the company before the auction and anyone in the world who has interest can register a company in the country. He further said that there was a review of hunting regulations to address several issues such as hunting experts and Strategic Wildlife Investment Concession Areas (SWICA). Speaking to Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) officials when closing a four-day meeting, Dr Nzuki also commended TAWA for managing wildlife resources despite the challenges, including inadequate staff in some of its facilities. He also tasked TAWA to team up with other stakeholders to come up with better strategies that will help to attract more foreign tourists. According to Dr Nzuki, hunting blocks is one of wellestablished areas that largely contribute foreign currency to government coffers. “So, there is a need for TAWA to promote the sub-sector for more economic gains,” he said, urging the authority to encourage more investors in the area. Dr Nzuki asked TAWA to come up with a proposal on tourist hunting promotion by eyeing different international markets such as Russia, Ukraine, Central and Southern Asia, Australia and Brazil. TAWA Acting Commissioner Mr Mabula Nyanda said the authority continues to fulfil its responsibilities, including wildlife conservation, which is its primary duty as well as conducting patrols to control poaching in and out of game reserves and protected areas. He thanked the ministry for launching the Human and Wildlife Conflict Management Strategy on October 8, this year. The strategy provides guidance to bring together conservation institutions and other stakeholders in managing conflicts. “The authority promises to implement this strategy in collaboration with other conservation stakeholders to enhance the safety of the community and their resources as well as wildlife,” said Mr Nyanda. Moreover, he said the authority will ensure thorough inspections for government trophies at borders and other areas. “Wildlife control patrols are also on-going to save lives and property,” said Mr Nyanda.