PRESIDENT John Magufuli has nominated Humphrey Polepole and Riziki Said Lulida Members of Parliament, his first picks for presidential parliamentary seats. The two presidential nominated MPs were announced yesterday, 24 days since Dr Magufuli officially commenced his second term in office on November 5, this year. Article 66 (1) (e) of the Constitution allows the President to nominate ten MPs to the National Assembly, at least five of whom should be women. Mr Polepole currently presides as CCM’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary. He previously served as the District Commissioner for Ubungo and Musoma. Meanwhile, Ms Lulida formerly served as Lindi Special Seat MP under the Civic United Front (CUF) ticket. She defected to the ruling CCM June, this year. The duo’s nominations were welcomed by Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally, who said both Mr Polepole and Ms Lulida were suitable candidates for parliamentary duties and anticipated big results from them. He said his office will always be open for the newlynominated MPs and all other lawmakers who would seek support for various issues of national interests and development. According to Dr Ally, Polepole did a good job in his capacity as CCM’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary, especially during the past general election campaigns and oozed confidence that he would maintain his unwavering commitment in pursuing all assigned duties. “Mr Polepole is one of the best persons who deserve this nomination, he has distinguished himself as a hardworking person and committed leader,” lauded Dr Ally. “It is a tough job but I believe everything will go as planned. My office welcomes him all the time,” he added. However, Dr Ally noted that Mr Polepole would continue with his current duties as CCM’s Secretary for Ideology and Publicity. He added: “Mr Polepole has been a teacher to CCM members and a good example to opposition leaders who hold the same post in their parties.” Besides the 10 presidential nominated parliamentarians, a full House comprises 393 MPs of which 214 are from Mainland and 50 come from Zanzibar. The House also has 113 special seats female members; five members elected by the Zanzibar House of Representatives and the Attorney General. The 12th parliament is heavily dominated by the ruling party CCM, which won 256 out of 264 constituencies in this year’s general election. Soon after winning reelection President Magufuli reappointed Prof Adelardus Kilangi to continue serving in his fifth phase government as the Attorney General (AG). According to Article 59 (3), the Attorney-General shall be the adviser of the Government of the United Republic on matters of law, and for that purpose shall be responsible for advising the government of the United Republic on all matters of law. Dr Magufuli then reappointed Kassim Majaliwa as the Prime Minister, before reinstating Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango and Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi. Last week, President Magufuli also appointed former Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein the new Chancellor of University of Mzumbe in Morogoro. A statement issued in Dodoma yesterday by the State House Director of Presidential Communications Gerson Msigwa said Dr Shein took over from former Chief Justice Barnabas Samatta who completed his term. The same day, president appointed Dr Harrison George Mwakyembe the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS), while also reappointing Ms Gaudencia Kabaka the chairperson for the University of Dodoma Governing Council.