THE Tanzania Police Force has issued a strong warning against politicians and their followers who intend to engage themselves in illegal demonstrations, saying it will institute stern legal actions against them. The warning was issued here yesterday evening by the Commissioner of Opera and Training, Liberatus Sabas during a press conference. He was responding to inflammatory statements issued by leaders of three political parties who convened a media conference in Dar es Salaam, declaring that beginning Monday, they intend to conduct non-stop demonstrations to protest what they termed as unfair 2020 General Election. “As I speak today, two political parties—CHADEMA and ACT Wazalendo met in Dar es Salaam and issued a statement to create awareness to their followers to have nonstop demonstrations…however, after a thorough assessment, the Police Force found out that their decision is likely to plunge the country into chaos,’’ said Mr Sabas. The Police Commissioner further insisted that whoever was not happy with the election results had an option to follow proper legal procedures instead of opting to use force in dealing with discontent. “I hereby warn all wananchi who will be dragged into the political trap, and, I wish to remind them that the police force will not hesitate to take legal actions against them and other people who will try to instigate the country into chaos,’’ he said. Meanwhile, police in Dar es Salaam has not approved of the nonstop peaceful demonstrations being incited by some opposition party leaders planned for next Monday. The Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Lazaro Mambosasa told the Sunday News in a telephone interview yesterday, noting that they have not received any application from any political party with regard to the issuance of a permit. “Such demonstrations have not been granted approval nor will they be approved…we will not allow this, any person who will violate and go into the streets should go at their own risk,” said Commander Mambosasa. He urged Tanzanians to ignore any such illegal plans which have not been approved by the rightful authorities. He, however, urged the parties that are not satisfied with the election results to go and file their appeals at the court or the National Electoral Commission. “As I told them on Friday via a media conference, the elections are over, they should prepare for the 2025 polls,” he said. The Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Abubakar Kunenge on his part said security organs are prepared to counter any incidences aimed at destabilising peace in the city. He has, therefore, advised residents in the country’s commercial capital to continue with their daily economic activities since peace is maintained even after the election. “At this juncture, city residents are done with voting exercise and received results already. People should continue with their productive activities knowing that security organs are there to ensure safety and deal perpendicularly with a few hopeless people who want to upset others,” said Kunenge. He made the remark shortly after opening of the Workers Council for the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC) in Dar es Salaam. Kunenge advised TASAC management to motivate workers who in turn will ensure quality delivery in its activities. Kunenge added that enhanced service delivery will subsequently boost economic development of the country