AN ambitious project to help slow learners in five primary schools of Chamwino District has successfully helped 809 children in literacy and numeracy skills, who initially could not read and count. The schoolchildren between Standard Three and Six can now cope with their peers in class, according to Uwezo Tanzania Research and Innovation Officer Benjamin Masebo. TWO Nongovernmental Organisations (NGOs)—Uwezo Tanzania in collaboration with Dodoma based Non-profit Organisation—Women Wake Up (Wowap) launched the project dubbed ‘Jifunze’ in May this year. Jifunze Project, according to Mr Masebo, was rolled out at five primary schools in Chamwino District. They are Amani, Chiwondo, Mondomera, Chiboli and Muyendaje. Mr Masebo was presenting an assessment report on the success of the project and challenges faced during the implementation of the project at a meeting attended by Chamwino District Commissioner Vumilia Nyamoga. The meeting was also attended by Uwezo Tanzania Country Manager Zaida Mgalla and Wowap Executive Director Fatma Tawfiq and teachers from the five primary schools where the project was implemented. The meeting aimed at assessing how successful the project was. According to Ms Mgalla, apart from Dodoma, the project was also implemented in other districts of Kisarawe (Coast Region), Mbarari (Mbeya Region), Kilolo (Iringa Region), Rudewa and Mvomero (Morogoro Region). “In Chamwino District, the project was implemented for 60 days and 85 per cent of the schoolchildren, who were enrolled, improved their literacy and numeracy skills,’’ she noted. According to her, two teachers from every school were selected and trained. “Many children appeared to love the project because of the unique techniques applied by teachers and many of them can now read and write unlike before,’’ added Ms Mgalla. In Every district, Uwezo Tanzania selected one NGO as an implementing partner, and, in this case in Chamwino District Wowap was selected. Speaking during the project assessment meeting, Wowap Executive Director Fatma Tawfiq paid tribute to Uwezo Tanzania team for making the project successful. Ms Tawfiq, who doubles as a Special Seats MP, said for the country to attain its ambitious middle-income economy through industrialisation, it was equally important to improve the education sector. Chamwino District Commissioner, Ms Vumilia Nyamoga, also thanked the two NGOs for coming up with the ambitious initiative, asking teachers who had participated in the project to ensure they would continue using skills to train more children in their schools.