WITH 32 days left to the deadline outlawing plastic tubing, several Dar es Salaam residents interviewed said possibly earlier banned polythene bags were in a way resurfacing. Plastic tubing were tolerated by the government because they were being used partly by petty traders selling water and other related drinks, but some dishonest manufacturers took the advantage to flood the market with their sorts and secretly sell them with clearance from the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS). That prompted the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) last week to set December 31, this year as the deadline for using any tubing in the country. In a random interview conducted yesterday in the city, several people said the ban should go ahead as earlier planned. “Majority of people in the public can not differentiate allowed straws and banned plastic bags. To me large tubing are plastic bags and are the ones banned by the government. I cannot make a distinction between the two groups,” said Shukuru Ismail a resident of Tandika. However, Mr Ismail said the tubing liter the environment in the same way other plastic bags also pollute the environment, adding: “Manufacturers through the back door are bringing back the same plastic bags this time with a new name.” NEMC is worried by the tubing penetrating the market illegally, hence, saying if the situation is not checked, it might go out of hand. According to NEMC the tubings in the market are of different sizes and have never been approved by the TBS. A petty trader who sells water with such straws could not tell the source of the tubing, saying: “They are brought here by fellow traders and it’s only them to tell us where they get them from…but we need tubing for our business,” said Mr Erick Shemdolo. A Kibada resident petty trader, Ms Hilda Kajaula says: “let the ban come, but NEMC and TBS, as well as other agencies should know that petty traders do not manufacture these plastic tubing…these are people using them in business to earn a living, let them provide us with alternative(s) instead of phasing them out.” A teenage banana vendor along Uhuru Street, Hashim Mbeleko, said tubing are popular to his customers, but knows nothing about them as alleged in health. “Mine is selling my product for a living and I know nothing about environment and health. I only have little education for my survival that is all what I care about,” he said. Mr Ezekiel Kapinga, a resident of Boko Kanisani, said it was important for NEMC to stand up strong against outlawing the tubing, because they have inherent danger to human health. “Tubing liter our surroundings and I do not know also whether they rot once thrown away. I believe it is important the ban is maintained,” he added. Last week NEMC Director General, Dr Samuel Gwamaka, called upon the petty traders to shift to alternative wrappers because plastic tubing would be phased out after December 31, this year.