BOXING craze that lit up arenas from the 1970s to early 2000s continued to regain ground with full backing of fans and supporters. This time it was Twaha Rubaha Kiduku who was on spotlight again who did Tanzania a proud by knocking out Sirimongkhon Iamthuam of Thailand at PTA Hall in Dar es Salaam. Well attended the international bout drew a huge attention and was aired live nationwide. For a short period of time professional boxing has managed to appeal its fans, just a few months after Hassan Mwakinyo initiated it and later Twaha Kiduku when he defeated Abdallah Pazzy (Dulla Mbabe) with boxer Tony Rashid joined the bandwagon in the process. Before the big number of supporters, PTA Hall was lit up on the late Friday night when Twaha beat the Thai by technical knockout in the 7th round. It was bad night for Iamthuam in Dar es Salaam. Kiduku displayed a classy performance by dominating each round of the ten-round bout. Since the beginning of this year, Kiduku has so far registered two major wins. He first defeated his fellow Tanzanian Dulla Mbabe at Uhuru Stadium in August by unanimous decision. He was crowned by the Tanzania Professional Boxing Commission (TPLB) Super Middle title after the feat. He also holds Tanzania Professional Boxing Commission Light Title, and Universal Boxing Organisation (UBO) African Super Welter Title. Kiduku is more characterised with strong guard and stance together with powerful and accurate punches. In his bout with the Thailand boxer, it was clear that Kiduku wanted an early victory, as each punch he threw was massive and had a lot of impact to his opponent. 2020 might be Kiduku’s banner year in his career as he has an outstanding overall performance again and the seventh round win further decorates him. In the seventh round you would notice the Thailand boxer leaning on his opponent's chest over and over but Kiduku was very smart to push his opponent away to put him squarely at the good range of his powerful punches. Kiduku kept attacking with straight punches on his opponent’s forehead, his guard became lousier. It was indeed an opportunity for Twaha to attack again but this time it was much harder. The Thai’s stance became weak, matching to the corner and calling for retreat. It was definitely he was done with the bout as he looked weak even before the start of the seventh round. After this bout Twaha will face Guy Tshimanga from Democratic Republic of the Congo in December at Next Door Arena, Dar-Es-Salaam. His opponent has fought 14 bouts and won 11 in which eight by knockout while he has lost three of them.