FOR old timers, they will remember the year 1995, when women from all over the world gathered in a city called Beijing, and the sole agenda was discussing matters which involve women, walikua na ya kwao. From what we gathered, so many things were discussed, but the main thing that leaked to men who were waiting to hear the outcome of the conference was the fact that women, in their unity, had decided that enough was enough, yaaani wamechoka kabsaa and they wanted change! They claimed that they were tired of being on the beck and call of unappreciative men who walked all over them, yaani they went short of calling men slave drivers, and they decided that they want equal rights, haki sawa kwa wote, hawakutaka mjadala. Our mothers and sisters declared unanimously that if we shared space on this here world, then for crying out loud, there should be gender equality, kwa kifupi walitaka haki sawa, piga ua garagaza nguo kuchanika, they decided that kama mbaya mbaya, lazima kieleweke! Okay, let me go straight to the point before I bore you stiff while I try to indulge you in all the nitty gritty details of that conference, kama nilivyowaambia, they wanted equal rights, which means that they wanted to share the table with the big boys. I don’t know whether Tanzanian women attended this conference or they ended up on the streets of Beijing doing shopping and enjoying the Chinese cuisine, because there are some things which are not right…..wanawake nawaheshimu sana, ila mtanisamehe, lazima ukweli niuseme. I have some reason to believe that while other women were busy blaming men and demanded for their rights, our Tanzanian ladies were busy doing their nails and fitting weaves on their hair as they tried on Chinese shoes, kwa sababu naona kama mambo hayajakaa sawa vile. After my daily activities and a hectic day, I sometimes like to sit with my boys and discuss various things as we cool our dry throats, kubadilishana mawazo, and some of the things that are constantly being discussed is the habit of our Tanzanian women to demand for money. Naomba mnielewe, sio wote, ila wengi, they have this habit which is slowly getting out of hand, and sometimes you wonder whether there is a secret place where they are usually taken and taught how to perfect the art of begging, tunaita mizinga. You will wonder if they went to the same training centre because to say the truth, the methods are usually the same, right down to the full stop and coma, mizinga inafanana kabsaa! Narudia tena, sio wote ila wengi, and the men, according to them, are trying to learn how to counter this habit, because they claim that it removes the fun in relationships, especially new ones. One fellow claimed that he was arrested by the police and spent three cold nights at the police station, but when he finally managed to get out, his woman wanted to know what gift he had brought for her…. “baby umeniletea nini kutoka huko?” Msema kweli ni mpenzi wa Mungu, and I vowed to always speak the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help me God, that is why I have to tell you ladies to try and keep it down kidogo, punguzeni kidogo. Word has it that this kind of habit spoils the fun in relationships, because men now believe that women were given special dreams where they were told that men are moving money machines, kwamba ni vijamaa vya kukamuliwa tu. It is not wrong for a man to support his woman financially, naomba mnielewe, but there are women who take the mizinga habit too far, yaani wamekuwa kama omba omba vile! You meet a very nice lady, and you exchange contacts, yaani huna hata mawazo ya kumtongoza, and a few days later, the mzinga message knocks on your phone. “Baby nashida na elf 50”, mara ooh, baby naomba ela ya saluni, hujakaa vizuri, baby mama anaumwa naomba nitumie ela…I don’t know, maybe other African countries are facing the same predicament, sijui kwa kweli. Sometimes I have reasons to believe that this habit of begging for money is responsible in making some men to mistreat women, kweli kabisa, wanawake wengine mnajidhalilisha sana. Sometime back I met a very nice lady who came to my office for an interview. She requested for my number, and being a gentleman, I gave it to her, believing that she needed it for a professional purpose, kweli kabisa, msiniangalie hivyo, that is what happened. A few hours later, I got a text from her, asking me if I was still in the office. I told her that indeed I was still in the office, but I was about to leave in a short while, maongezi ya kawaida tu. The next morning, I got another text ‘Umeamkaje my?’, and it left me wondering….so many words can be placed in front of the word ‘my’, yaani sikujua alimaanisha nini kwa kweli. The next message confirmed my fear, that I had come across a member of the mizinga squad, because she told me ‘My nashida na laki 2’. Now I was left wondering whether she forgot to add anything in front of the word ‘my’, or it was on purpose, and if it was on purpose, then what does ‘my’ mean? The second thing that got me thinking was that this lady did not know me to the extent of asking for money from me, sasa sikuelewa hiki kitambi labda ndio kilimdanganya. The thing is, that lady kept on begging for money every other day, if it was not for her sick mother, then it was for her hair, or she lost someone and she needed to travel…..during the recent elections, I would not have been shocked if she texted… ‘My naomba ela ya uchaguzi’. This habit is bad, kusema ukweli, and you find that most of these ladies are working, they are financially independent, but they believe that it is their birth right to squeeze money from any male species, ni tabia mbaya kwa kweli, acheni.