CHRISTINA MSEJA, NANCY MAWOLE RESIDENTS of Dar es Salaam have been advised to regularly check their health, especially on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), to identify causes and take precautions. Dar es Salaam Region’s Chief Medical Officer, Dr Rashid Mfaume said this at the occasion to mark the NCDs Week at Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam. He said the week aims at creating awareness and educate people in Dar es Salaam and nearby areas to identify causes of these diseases and prevent serious consequences, including death. Taking precautions against the causes of non-communicable diseases by having a healthy lifestyle, including regular exercise has been highly encouraged by health experts. He therefore, encouraged city residents to visit Mnazi Mmoja grounds to get tested to know whether they have NCDs or not. According to him, NCDs Week is being held in all 26 regions of the country with a number of services being provided. Such services include diabetes screening, blood pressure, sickle cell and heart diseases checkup. Others include stroke, mental health care, nutritional status, eye and dental care. “Last year, the government through Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa launched the strategy on NCD prevention and control programme to curb its increase in the country,” Dr Mfaume explained. He added that there will be screening and treatment at service delivery centres in collaboration with health professionals from Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI), Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) and Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI). “Through these services, it will help to provide good linkage between health professionals from referral hospitals and the public, thereby reducing costs,” he explained. “The purpose of this week is to provide education on NCDs so that people should be aware of their dangers and how best to curb them from further spreading,” he insisted, while elaborating that diagnostic service began on Wednesday until the peak of the NCDs week on November 14th, this year. NCDs threaten the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which includes a target of reducing premature deaths from NCDs by one-third by 2030. “NCDs are currently a major problem, mainly caused by unhealthy lifestyles like lack of eating discipline, as such people need to switch and start practicing good lifestyles,” he noted. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), NCDs kill 41 million people each year, equivalent to 71 per cent of all deaths globally.