IMMACULATE Makalle’s powerful backhand and forehand shots coupled with the quickness of her movements on the court, is an unequivocal indication of the bright future that awaits her as a tennis pro. Poised and mature beyond her years, Immaculate or Imma as many call her, has managed to make airwaves in the junior tennis circle in Tanzania for the past six years and counting. This young tennis prodigy emanates not only strength but also confidence on and off the court. Watching her on the court you will quickly realise that you are in the presence of a winner. Immaculate Makalle’s journey started at the age of six when her mother, in a tongue-in-cheek manner proclaimed Imma to be the family’s athlete. In an almost “EenieMeenie” way, her father and mother picked tennis as the sport for her. “One day my mother came across tennis and she was like oh, can you try to play this sport and see if you like it or not? And I was like sure why not. Both my mother and father took me to the tennis court on my first day. I was six the first time I stepped foot on the tennis court for my first ever practice...and I was terrible.” To a normal six year old, the terrible first performance would have been enough justification to exit the game and never look back, but true to character, Imma whilst enjoying the game, saw her performance not as a defeat but as an opponent worth tackling, and tackle she did. From that day she made the Kijitonyama tennis playground her second home. Right after school she would put on her full pink jersey, a racket that her dad got her and relentlessly pushed herself on the court. The many hours of practice were the hot furnace that forged her perseverance. This perseverance was the ripple effect that birthing discipline, then discipline habit and with that black excellence. “I think some of the best games I have ever played were my very first ones. I ended up getting second place (which only happened twice) but those games showed me where I needed to improve. It was motivation to get to the field and practice as much as I did and still do.” She went on to win the Silver medal at Max Malipo Junior open in 2016, 2016 BQ Open Winner for Under 8 girls, 2017 BQ & Pepsi Tennis Open Winner for both Doubles and Singles, 2017 Eddies Junior Runner up, Gymkhana Open winner for both singles and doubles for three consecutive years (2017, 2018, 2019). Nevertheless, according to Imma, the medals and championships are not the only advantages to the game, she attributes her confidence and strength to tennis. She has learned to perceive challenges in life not as immovable mountains but as boulders that can be moved and conquered with enough resilience and industriousness. Not to mention the physical fitness and mental stability that she has gained over the years all thanks to the game she loves. Now, a twelve years old preteen, Immaculate is ready to take on professional tennis. She understands that she will have to continuously put in an enormous amount of work on and off the court and she is ready for it. With 5 days of training per week when school is open and 6 days of training on holidays, she is well on the course of becoming an outlier. She compliments her gusto for tennis with an equal amount of enthusiasm about school. Her family keeps her firmly grounded in school and make sure she still has time to enjoy being a child. When asked about her goals, she replies “I want to play at the major tennis tournaments like Wimbledon and the US Open. I want to play against my heroes Serena and Naomi and Coco. I want to make my family proud for believing in me, I want to wave the Tanzanian flag at the French and Australian Open. I also want to finish school with flying colours and hopefully inspire other children to reach for their dreams.” With an outstanding record behind her evidenced by the numerous medals and trophies, she is ready for her professional career that is now on the horizon. Immaculate Makalle is not just the future of Tanzanian sport but she is now, already, the present. She has what it takes to become a household name in Tennis in Tanzania and internationally. With a formidable serve and showing no sign of trepidation, she is ready to take the tennis world by storm.