A HOTEL business operating company, Wellworth Hotels and Lodges Limited, has taken back to court five Kenyan registered companies, demanding over 4.2bn/- for allegedly breach of contract relating to installation of mobile tented camps in various National Parks in Tanzania. Before the High Court in Dar es Salaam, the defendant companies are East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd, which is a company duly registered under the Laws of the Republic of Kenya and its shareholder, Stirling Arving Horsely, Robert James Flowers, Gary Mcintyre and Eco –Steel Africa Ltd. Through youthful Advocate Yasin Maka from Stallion Attorneys, the Wellworth Hotels and Lodges Limited, the plaintiff, is seeking for, among others, a declaratory order that the defendants have breached the contract entered between East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd and them. The plaintiff company also pushes for 100m/- payments as special damages for the business frustration caused, a full reimbursement of 443,508.60 US dollars, as well as 1,357,045.18 US dollars as special damages for losses incurred plus some interests thereon. Initially, the defendants had objected to the hearing of the suit on some grounds, including questioning the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the matter. In a decision given by the Court, however, Judge Deo Nangela ruled against the defendants after dismissing such kind of ground of objection. The judge pointed out that the Court has general jurisdiction over civil matters and that in accordance with section 7 of the Civil Procedure Code, courts in Tanzania have jurisdiction to hear all suits of a civil nature unless otherwise expressly or impliedly barred from doing so. There has been an argument that for this Court to be able to exercise jurisdiction over a foreign defendant, such defendant must be within the territorial jurisdiction of the Court. In other words, there must be a connecting factor between the court and the defendants. In his ruling, however, the judge stressed that the jurisdiction of the court could not be questions and agreed with the submissions by Mr Maka that the Court has jurisdiction over the defendants because the cause of action arose wholly in Tanzania. Wellworth Hotels and Lodges Limited, a company registered in accordance with the laws of the United Republic of Tanzania, operates its businesses in the hotel industry under the tourism sector. On January 26, 2016, the plaintiff and the East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd entered into a contract for designing, manufacturing, supplying, installing and commissioning on turnkey basis of five full mobile tented camps in various national parks in Tanzania. The East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd was a supplier and a contractor while Wellworth Hotels and Lodges Limited was the client or employer. The parties agreed for an estimate time for delivery of each of the five camps as from April 10 to June 30, 2016. It stated in the plaint of the suit also that the parties agreed that the plaintiff shall pay East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd 1.3 million US dollars as consideration for all agreed services that the latter company would perform pursuant to the contract. "The plaintiff thereby paid the (East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd) an amount of 702,000 US dollars as an advance payment of the full consideration amount," read part of the plait of the suit. Apart from the advance amount that was paid by the plaintiff, East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd made a special request to the plaintiff on March 8, 2018 for payment of an extraneous and additional amount of 60,000 US dollars. It is stated that the defendants urgently requested the said additional funds to clear some consignments which would ensure an uninterrupted work flow at the Camps. It is further stated that the plaintiff paid the additional amount as requested and East Africa Canvans acknowledged receipt of the payment. According to the plaint, East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd has only supplied tents for two camps and has failed to supply tents in respect of others. The plaintiff alleges that even the supplied camps are incomplete and short supplied, contrary to the terms agreed by the parties. "The plaintiff thereafter demanded for specific performance of the contract from (East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd) but al; efforts were unsuccessful. The defendants have been stalling the matter without any lawful or reasonable justification," reads another paragraph of the plaint. It is stated that the decision by East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd were taken and correspondences were made through its directors and shareholders, also defendants in the suit, who conducted themselves in bad faith against the plaintiff hotel company. Due to non-performance by the defendants, the plaintiff claims to have suffered loss by incurring additional costs for maintenance and modification of tents supplied through another company, by engaging another supplier to perform the defendant's obligations. The plaintiff also claims to have been incurring continuous loss of business due to cancellation of customer bookings since July 2017 for the reason of incompletion of the project, for injuring business reputation to his customers as well as all stake holders.