THE National Electoral Commission (NEC) has closed the debate on Chadema Special Seats saga, insisting that the nominated Members of Parliament were picked from a list submitted to the Commission by the opposition party. NEC Director of Elections, Dr Wilson Charles said that the Commission nominated the special seats MPs from the list submitted by Chadema through its letter with reference number C/ HQ/ADM/20/TU/05/141 dated November 19, 2020. He strongly refuted claims that NEC illegally nominated Chadema MPs because it used the list presented by the party’s Secretary General to appoint the legislators. “Chadema Special Seats MPs were nominated by observing all the required constitutional and legal procedures,” Dr Charles said. He explained that NEC started receiving the list of Special Seats MPs from various political parties from September 26 this year, where it received a list from Chama Cha Mapinduzi, and in November 19, Chadema submitted its list to the Commission. “On November 20 this year, NEC nominated Special Seats MPs and ward councillors basing on constitution and legal requirements,” he said. Meanwhile, National Assembly Speaker, Job Ndugai has pocked holes into Chadema’s handling of its Special Seats legislators’ saga, warning that the lawmakers now enjoy all the rights and privileges provided by the Parliament. Speaking during a live broadcast with the State television, Mr Ndugai said immediately after he swore in 19 members of the opposition Chadema, the party issued a statement accusing them of betrayal. They were subsequently summoned to appear before the party Central Committee but did not show up. “These are internal matters which were supposed to be discussed internally before presenting them to the public,” he said. Mr Ndugai had suggested that Chadema hurriedly and unprofessionally handled the matter. He advised CHADEMA’s Secretary-General, John Mnyika to borrow a leaf from the ruling CCM counterpart, Dr Bashiru Ali. It is on record that Mnyika had blamed and judged the new MPs who took the oath of integrity on Tuesday. Mr Ndugai said the decision by the party to summon its members was tantamount to prejudging them. He said it could have sounded better if there had been internal meetings through which the party’s Central Committee could have reached its verdict. Ndugai administered the oath of integrity on 19 new MPs, in which CHADEMA national chairperson for Women’s Wing and former Kawe legislator, Ms Halima Mdee took the first oath. Other legislators were Grace Tendega, Esther Matiko, Cecilia Pareso, Esther Bulaya, Agnester Kaizer, Nusrat Hanje, Jesca Kisho and Hawa Mwaifunga. The ceremony also involved Tunza Malapo, Asia Mohammed, Felister Njau, Naghenjwa Kaboyoka, Sophia Mwakagenda, Kunti Majala, Stella Fiyao, Anatropia Theonest, Salome Makamba and Conchesta Rwamlaza. The swearing-in of opposition members makes a total number of House members to 278. The full House of the Parliament involves 393 members, in which 10 seats are presidential appointees and five representatives from the Zanzibar House of Representatives. Mr Ndugai is optimistic that the 12th parliamentary session will be strategic to help champion development programmes across the country. He called on political parties and wananchi to support special seat MPs and other lawmakers to help implement development programmes in the country. In another development, the National Assembly Speaker insisted that his office received a full list of CHADEMA members from the National Electoral Commission (NEC) which is in charge of the entire process. He urged the public to ignore ill-intentioned messages which are being generated by the opposition party claiming the whole process is illegal.