PRESIDENT John Magufuli has banned touts from operating at the newly constructed Dodoma Bus Terminal, ordering Dodoma authorities to allow petty traders, such as food vendors and commuter bus operators to have access to the new facility. Similarly, he has strongly criticized the practice of SUMA JKT guards to harass errant individuals by frog marching them. The Head of State voiced his concerns, including giving directives on the operations of the newly Dodoma Bus Terminal on Thusday when he spoke to Dodoma City Council Executive Director Godwin Kunambi. “SUMA JKT are employed to protect Tanzanian citizens and not to harass them by frogging them. Fortunately, SUMA JKT guards are doing a good job at Dar es Salaam ferry as we have not witnessed people being frogmarched or at Mwanza ferry,” he said. “I am sure when you signed a contract with SUMA JKT, you did not direct them to punish people. If there is any SUMA JKT officer who frog-marches people should be expelled so that we remain with those who are willing to protect our citizens,” he said, adding: “I don’t support the presence of touts at the bus terminal as these are the ones who turn out to be thieves, causing trouble to passengers and other people. Touting is not a good job to opt for, I appeal them to do business and not touting.” Speaking on the right for all petty traders to access the terminal, President Magufuli said the regional bus stand was for the benefit of all citizens, including food vendors. “I have built this terminal for all Tanzanians in the country, including allowing poor to participate in the different economic activities. This terminal serves all people irrespective of their economic stature,”he emphasized. He ordered the director to allocate a special place within the terminal for petty traders, including food vendors to avail services to all people, including passengers. He has directed that motorcyclists and commuter buses be allowed into the terminal to spare those with luggage of discomfort.