DEPUTY Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment), Mussa Sima yesterday called on investors to talk to NEMC directly or use apt consultants to secure easily environment impact assessment (EIA), clearance from the National Environment Management Council (NEMC). Mr Sima said this in Dar es Salaam upon visiting Tropical Int. Group Inc factory to ascertain whether or not the company was operating without EIA clearance. He learnt the company had no EIA clearance as asserted in the during the last Bunge session. “I have come with a team of NEMC experts to satisfy ourselves if you have the EIA clearance, because it was said in parliament and in the parliamentary committee sessions that you do not have one. We have learnt the challenges you are facing and have advised the best way of doing things,” the minister said. The minister then called on investors to communicate directly with NEMC because procedures have been simplified and if they chose to use consultants they should use right consultants to stave of uncalled for administrative and procedural mishaps. He said there was no reason for an investor to fail to get EIA certificate in time, explaining that dishonest consultants delayed very important things relating to investment in the country. Mr Sima said it was illegal for an investor to start operations without EIA certificate. The minister said the government does not want to see investors being demoralised without cause, but also said investors should do their work after getting clearance from NEMC and without harming environment. The Company’s Director, Mr Charles Mlawa, said the ministerial visit gave them an opportunity to know how best to run their factory while observing the law. “We shall work on challenges that have been highlighted by experts in order to protect the environment,” he pledged. The company produced transformers and copper cables. NEMC Director General Samuel Gwamaka said besides carrying out the minister’s instructions, NEMC would cooperate with investors and help those who have violated the law to come back to line because, he said, NEMC did not want to be an obstacle to investment in the country. Consultants who would fail to present write-ups in specified time were risking being struck off the list, Dr Gwamaka warned.