FROM Biblical times a good leader is the one who leads his people to address challenges in the community for life to be easy for them because he/she is part and parcel of the community. He is not a puppet/stooge of a foreign power serving his/her personal interest and his/her master’s desires. Remember if your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader. With this background as the country now gears to run general elections in October to elect a president, Members of Parliament and Councillors, Tanzanians want leaders who have feelings, desires and ready to fight ignorance, diseases and poverty together. These are the major enemies Tanzanians like any other citizens of the world would want to eliminate. Tanzanians do not want leaders who want to ascend to power to reap and enrich themselves from taxpayers’ money. As the founder of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere once said: “State House is a holy place, what is there to be reaped? We must be cautious of people who are hungry to go there for their own interests.” Tanzanians must sieve keenly those who are wooing them to be voted as leaders. They must be people who are real and honesty, able to delegate and relinquish power when their times of office expire like all phases of government have done since independence. A great leader must show confidence and ready to motivate his people especially during a crisis. He must lead by example, express constant focus, perseverance and building a team that is accountable and designed to get results without be swayed apart by cronies, relatives and ethnic community alliances. A good leader must shun corruption whatever the name it would be ‘baptized’ as kickbacks, tips, you name it because at the end of the day, it infringes the right of a citizen somewhere in the course of getting his/her right, which in this case must come at a fee/favour. As Tanzanians we must put aside leaders being imposed on us or those trying to buy power, because they are corrupt and remember corruption erodes the trust we have in the public sector to act in our best interests. It also wastes our taxes or rates that have been earmarked for important community projects- meaning we have to put up with poor quality services or infrastructure, or we miss out altogether. By and large, Tanzanians want leaders who fear and worship God, leaders who must know that they are servants of the people and not lords.