THE Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) will next month start using concrete electric poles in its projects, a move that is expected to save 67bn/- spent annually on maintenance of wooden poles. According to the government, the use of concrete poles will improve efficiency in the energy sector and ensure reliable power to customers, while experts say that it will help to have durable power infrastructure. Minister for Energy Dr Medard Kalemani told stakeholders engaged in the production of poles at his office in Dar es Salaam that, the government had resolved to stop using  wood  poles  and switch to concrete ones from July 1 this year in order to improve power supply. He said  the concrete  poles will be produced  in  country,  noting that  it   had already  opened  doors  for  various  investors  to  start  making  them. Dr Kalemani explained that the current power production was sufficient to meet the country’s demand, and so  there was no reason for people to miss electricity due to maintenance of infrastructure,  especially replacement of  damaged poles. "We have sufficient power ... there is no need for people to experience frequent power outages due to replacement of damaged poles. Tanesco should also not spend 67bn/- for poles maintenance while we have an option of using concrete poles," he said. Tanzania  Concrete  Poles Company   Limited  (TCPM)  Director  Engineer  Yusuf Kitivo, said  concrete poles  have been used in special  projects such as  Julius Nyerere Hydro Power Plant along Rufiji River within the Selous Game Reserve. He said the use of concrete poles had shown positive results in improving power supply services. For his part, Burton Nsemwa from Lukolo Company which deals with   production of concrete poles,   praised the government’s move, saying that it is an opportunity for local investors to contribute to the development of their nation. A senior  lecturer at  the College of Engineering  (CoET),  Dr  Mighanda  Manyahi,  said that  the  use of concrete poles  would help the  country to have durable power  infrastructure. He said that wooden poles can be easily attacked by termites and their strength cannot be compared to concrete poles. Dr  Manyahi further said that wooden poles  cannot exceed 12 feet and  it is used for low and  medium voltage  while  concrete  poles  can  also be used for  high  voltage. He said that although concrete poles are expensive, they last longer compared to wooden ones. "This is a good move but the quality should be controlled in order to avoid production of low quality poles," he said.     