ALWAYS remember, if somebody is promising super normal returns on your investments – think twice, there could be a problem. However, the normal human psychology drives a person to make fast bucks within the shortest possible time. If we fail in managing this temptation of making fast bucks, for sure many  times we will be making wrong investment decisions. One has to understand that investment returns are determined by many factors which among others include - the prevailing interest rates [for short as well as long term placements], economic outlook, future prospects, inflation rate etc. Therefore one has to take account of the so called determining factors while expecting returns on their investments. If we ignore the determining factors and look for getting super normal returns, it is quite possible that one would fall prey to many un-regulated and risky investment options promising abnormal returns to its investors. There are many examples of such mishaps across the world, where many investors lost the base capital itself in their quest for getting super normal returns. Therefore one has to be very careful while taking investment decisions on one’s hard earned money. Any investment decision should be judged keeping in view the three important factors viz. Safety, Liquidity and Returns. While as an investor, it is quite customary to expect best returns in a prevailing situation, however, here the ‘best returns’ means outperformance of the corresponding benchmark index of a target market and not super normal returns which normally are nowhere near to the referred market index. Now the mute question remains - as a normal investor how would you know the benchmark market index which one should refer while making an investment decision. This is not very difficult to gauge if we know our target market. Suppose one is interested in investing in the equity market [i.e. listed shares], then the performance of the chosen stock over a period can be compared with the corresponding performance of the concerned Stock Exchange index. Similarly, if one is interested in investing in debt instruments then depending on timelines the applicable benchmark index can be studied e.g. for short term investments one can refer the prevailing rates on instruments such as: call rate, 182 days T-bills rate, 1 year bank deposit rate etc., while for long term investments the referred benchmarks could be the fixed term bank deposit rates or prevailing rates on a fixed term Treasury Bonds/ Corporate Bonds etc. As an investor you must also ensure that the instruments/ schemes where you intend to invest are also regulated under the applicable laws of the Country. The so called Ponzi schemes are normally not regulated by an appropriate Regulating Authority and thus bound to bring misfortune to its investors. Some of these are even outlawed. Therefore, before making any investment, gather the desired information from the available sources so that your investment decision passes the litmus test of – Safety, Liquidity and Returns. It is good to remember that in any investment transaction, return(s) is only one part of the story, while the other important factors like safety and liquidity of your investment should not be compromised in your search for getting extraordinary returns. Notwithstanding the above, the role of an investment adviser or stock broker can’t be ignored as their expert services can always be availed in order to make judicious investment decisions. People think that earning money is the most difficult job in the world. However, managing the money well is equally difficult as it requires a lot of planning and strategy so as to ensure that your money earns more money for you and not otherwise.