From Europe to Africa one thing that appears to be troubling both passive and active followers of the beautiful game, from fans to those directly involved; players, team managers, coaches and managers is nothing, but MONEY. Many countries which have already decided to resume their respective leagues are talking of how lack of money is going to affect the resumption of the game to be held in empty stadia due to the existing corona virus pandemic within their borders. Accent on the money problem was made on Monday this week when the Fifa Chief, Gianni Infantino, spoke of the need for top flight clubs in the world to reduce salaries of their players on account of the financial problem that is presently afflicting the world. If top flight European soccer clubs are talking about financial crisis in the game, I would be surprised if African countries and Tanzania in particular, said otherwise. During the news bulletin of a local television channel, ITV, on Monday night, this week, an official of the Zanzibar soccer governing body said much as the isles government had given them a 20m/- shot in the arm, they still had massive financial problems, especially at club level. Although he did not elaborate, but the man appears to have had in mind things like financing of players’ training which require feeding the players before and after they have undertaken their training, not to talk of transport, jerseys, balls and so on. And when you take the number of players each soccer club has and the number of teams that play in the league in the isles, then you can easily appreciate and understand what the isles soccer official had in mind when he said what he said. Again, if the official of the isles soccer governing body talks of financial problem, I would be surprised if his counterparts on the Mainland said otherwise. But this does not mean that premier league on both sides of the Union are not going to re-start, far from it. Both leagues would kick of as scheduled. But there would be a lot of financial challenges. A few days ago, I tuned in to one of the city’s popular radio sports programmes in which some top flight sports analysts commented, in passing, on the local premier league. One of the things they said was that our Mainland Premier League was very weak. And that if you removed the two arch soccer rivals Simba and Young Africans they would be no league to write home about. Their argument was that what makes the two Tanzanian soccer giants what they are today, not only in Tanzania but also in the region is the strength of their fans. Indeed, I can also dare say that the two clubs have soccer following that is larger than any political party in the continent. But the question I have always asked myself is; have the two clubs made use of their large fan base? Have they translated their richness in fan base in monetary terms? Unfortunately, the answer to the two, foregoing questions is negative. They have not done that! And the question is why? Before the start of the league which was later suspended due to corona virus pandemic, Young Africans reportedly collected about three billion shillings from members and fans contributions. The club’s massive collection of money just goes to show how strong fan base Yanga has. But I strongly believe that Yanga have the ability to earn far than what they earned if they embarked on a sustainable way of generating its fund through business. Consider the following. Yanga have big fan base not only in Tanzania, but also beyond the country’s border. How much would the club earn if it produced say well designed caps, jerseys, scarves and other memmorabilias? Actually the same thing could be done by their arch soccer rivals, Simba. A few months ago, I had suggested to both clubs to use their strong fan base in making business. But I cautioned them against unscrupulous businessmen and women and imitators who are rife in Africa. If they could properly manage the production of such clubs’ products, they should not only have adequate money, but they could also help other clubs in the league, not directly, but through the TFF. In conclusion, the Corona virus pandemic has left us in tatters, including our soccer clubs, locally and internationally. But three clubs, Yanga, Simba and Azam FC ought not to be in the same boat with other clubs. Other clubs in our local league which could earn a lot of money if they produced their products for sale to their members and fans include well established teams in the league such as Mtibwa Sugar, Kagera Sugar, Coastal Union, African Sports (also from Tanga if they still exist), Lipuli FC, Singida United, Mbao even newcomers in the league, Ndanda FC. If the foregoing clubs and others in the premier league can only produce top quality products that represent their clubs, they would be surprised by the number of people ready to buy such products at any price. Clubs like Ndanda can raise a lot of money if they produced such products. Their fans in Mtwara would buy it, but if the quality is good. Many of Simba, Yanga jerseys I see in the streets in the country are of very low quality, including the very jerseys the three clubs put on. I sometimes wonder where they get such poor jerseys! If managements of the three Dar es Salaam clubs want to make good use of their massive following, let them go for it and now. But their products must be of very high quality. They will never regret.