WORLD Food Programme (WFP), Country Representative, Michael Dunford, has hailed President John Magufuli for his anti-lockdown stance throughout the period when the country was waging a spirited battle against Covid-19. According to a statement issued yesterday by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation, Mr Dunford poured praise on President Magufuli on how he successively led the country during the outbreak. He congratulated President Magufuli for his bold decision not imposing a lockdown in the country. The official spoke about President Magufuli’s handling of the pandemic when he met the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Ambassador Brigadier General Wilbert Ibuge in Dodoma for talks. According to Mr Dunford, the decision made by the president of not imposing a lockdown enabled the World Food Programme to proceed with its activities but with adherence to all precautionary measures against the virus. “I fully understand the dangers posed by the pandemic, but at the same time people must eat. However, people can’t eat if they don’t work, that’s why the decision made by President Magufuli was right. The good thing is that the stand maintained by the president was based on the guidelines from health experts, and lucky enough, Tanzania was not adversely affected by the pandemic,” he said. The two leaders discussed on various agricultural projects funded by WFP in the country, among them food for refugees, nutrition, empowering subsistence farmers, disaster reliance and improving innovation among farmers. He assured the Permanent Secretary of continued WFP‘s commitment in purchasing food crops from farmers in 2020 harvesting season. On his part, Ambassador Ibuge congratulated Mr Dunford for his advice and various assistance extended to Tanzania, especially in imparting new agricultural technological knowledge to farmers. Ambassador Ibuge thanked Mr Dunford for facilitating an agreement between WFP and Tanzania on the purchase of 36,000 tonnes of maize worth 21bn/-in 2019 farming season and another 100,000 tonnes of the crop in 2018 season. He urged the WPF leader in the country to continue cooperating with the government in resolving various challenges facing refugees in various camps. Mr Dunford has been promoted by the UN to serve as Zonal Representative.