PRESIDENT John Magufuli's faith in scholars clearly demonstrates his quest to translate knowledge into action for national development. The Head of State has given priority to experts from higher learning institutions in various presidential appointments as part of his efforts to steer Tanzania to a middle-income economy. Leading has been the University of the Dar es Salaam, the country's oldest University, which down the years has proudly produced competent and highly respected leaders who took part in the struggle for liberation and later leading African governments. A section of experts interviewed by the 'Daily News' were of the view that appointing academicians to various leadership positions was the best way of translating the knowledge into  actions. They argued that, being researchers in various areas, the dons were in a good position to support the government to perform its duties. The University's Vice Chancellor, Prof William Anangisye, told the 'Daily News' in an exclusive interview that the university was proud of all its alumnae who have been serving in government. Prof Anangisye said the appointment of academicians from the University of Dar es Salaam to various top directorial and political posts does not affect the varsity's performance in any way and pointed out that it proved its strength before the world. "This university produces quality graduates and has competent staff; therefore, appointing some of them to various posts is a great thing for us and for the nation at large; we are very proud of them," he noted. The UDSM boss stated that it had more than 1,500 academic staff and that appointing a few of them cannot affect its performance. "This university employs more than 1,500 academic staff, and we are grooming others every year, therefore appointing some does not affect our performance in anyway," said Prof Anangisye, adding: "The best lawyers in East Africa were produced from this university; it is obvious, everyone agrees that its contribution cannot be undermined," he further explained. Some of appointed academicians from the University of Dar es Salaam to the fifth phase government include the Foreign and East African Cooperation Minister, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, BoT Governor, Prof Florens Luoga, CCM Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally, Ambassador Dr Benson Bana and many others in various managerial posts. Determined to introduce a number of reforms in the education system, the government needed a strong team. And, President Magufuli never hesitated to utilise the country's cream as he has regularly picked scholars from universities to fill in various posts and support the implementation of development plans, and according to observers, the appointments have lived up to expectations. Being the centre of progressive intellectuals, the University of Dar es Salaam has produced a number of leaders in Africa. They include the current Tanzanian President, Dr John Magufuli, former President Dr Jakaya Kikwete, former prime Ministers such as Joseph Warioba and Edward Lowassa. Others include Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, former South Sudan President John Garang, former DRC President Laurent-Désiré Kabila, former President of the African Development Bank (ADB), Donald Kaberuka, and many others.