Continued  from  last  week. WE  closed  our  discussions  last week  at  the  point  when   I  was  beginning  to present  the  events  of  the  year 2015. At  the  beginning  of  April,  2015;  the   Mwalimu  Nyerere  Memorial  Academy  at  Kivukoni,  decided  to establish  a  new   “Leadership,  Ethics  and  Governance  Training  Programme”,  which  they  aptly  named  “Kibweta  cha  Mwalimu  Nyerere”. It  was  established   as  separate  Academic  Unit,  with  its  own  Chairman;  and  I  was  granted  the  honour  of  being  appointed by  that  Academy  as   its  first,  or  inaugural  Chairman.  Another  totally  unexpected  gift,  which  I  highly  appreciated. This  new  leadership  Training  programme  was  officially  inaugurated  by  President  Kikwete  on  13th  April,  2015,  which  was  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  birth date. That  event  also  became  the  occasion  for  my  investiture  as  Chairman  of  the  Kibweta  cha  Mwalimu  Nyerere.  The  Kiswahili  word  “Kibweta” means   “ a   small  box, normally  used  to  preserve  very  valuable  items,  such  as  pieces  of  jewellery”. Thus,  the  application  of  the  term  “Kibweta”  to  this  new  Unit,  was  presumably  intended  to  convey  the  same  meaning,  namely  that  this  Unit  was  going  to  be  the  academic  repository  of  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  nuggets  of  wisdom. My activities in retirement 2015-2020 with President  John Magufuli  in the  fifth phase  government. Because  of  the  fact  that  I  had  already  retired  from  active  Public  Service  when  President  Magufuli  took  office  in  November 2015;   I  have  had  minimal   involvement  in  matters  related  to  his  governance  as  President  of  the United  Republic.  However.   But,   as  I  stated  in  the  Introduction  section  of  this  book,  the   book’s  primary  purpose  is  to  preserve  our  country’s  political  history. President  John  Magufuli’s   innovative  style  of  governance  has  made  such  a   positive  impact  on  Tanzanian  Society,   and  also  because  I  have  been  a  close  eye-witness  of  these  innovations;   that  I  felt   it is  essential  for  some  of  his  innovations  to be  put  on  record in  these  memoirs. The  2015  Presidential  election The  2015  presidential  election  was  unusually  taxing  for  Chama  cha  Mapinduzi,  for  a  variety  of  reasons.  Firstly,  there  emerged  a  very  exciting  internal  competition within  CCM;  when  a  little   more  than  forty  serious,  (i.e,  not  frivolous)  candidates  submitted  their  applications  for  consideration,  including  Edward  Lowassa,  former  Prime  Minister,  who  had  invested  heavily,  in  terms  of  energy  and  resources,  in  this  Presidential  project. The  Ruling  party  was  therefore  faced  with  the  obviously  difficult  task  of selecting  the  one  among  them  who,  according  to  the  old  Madisonian  view: -  “ possesses  the  most  wisdom  to  discern,  and  the  most  virtue  to  pursue,  the  common  good”  for  our  dear  country. But  nevertheless,  CCM  was,  as always,  equal  to  the  task,  and  selected  John  Pombe  Joseph  Magufuli  as  its  flag-bearer  candidate. Edward  Lowasa,  who  was  fully  confident  that  his  heavy   investment  of  resources   would  produce  the  desired  results  of  securing  the  CCM  nomination;   was  utterly  disappointed    by  this  turn  of  events;  and  immediately  resorted  to  what I  subsequently  described   in  French  as  ”nomadisme  politique”,  meaning  “ nomadic  politics”;  as  that  appeared  to  me  to  be  the  most  appropriate,  and  befitting,  description  of  what  took  place. Edward  Lowassa  defected  from  CCM  to  CHADEMA; where  he  was  promised  nomination  as  their  candidate  for  the  Presidency.   He  subsequently  participated  in  that  Presidential  election  as  the  CHADEMA  sponsored  candidate,  but  lost  to  John  Magufuli,  the  CCM  candidate.  Thereafter,  he    “returned  home”  to  CCM,  thus  qualifying  for  the  description  of  being  a  ‘domestic  political  tourist’. Magufuli’s  Presidency  has  been    “ an  eye-rolling  event” “If  there  is  any  contemporary  eye-rolling  event,  with  big  effects  and  big  lessons  to  offer  globally,  and  which  has politically and  powerfully  defined  Tanzania  with  good  tidings;  is,  evidentially,  the  election  of  Dr.  John  Pombe  Magufuli  as  the  President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  in  2015”. The  above  is  a  quotation  from  a  new  book  that  has  just  been  published  by  GDY  Publications  Company  Ltd,  Dare es Salaam;   which  was  co-authored  by  myself  and my  friend   Nkwazi  N. Mhango,  a Canada  based  Tanzanian,  titled  “Magufulification:  New  concept  that  will  define  Africa’s  future”. This  bold   assertion  is  confirmed  by  many  other  sources.  For  example, just  one  month  after  he  had  assumed  office  as  President,  on  the  occasion  of  the  54th  independence  celebrations  on  9th  December, 2015;  the  local  English  language  newspapers  were  awash  with  positive  international  comments  regarding  President  Magufuli’s  performance. The DAILY  NEWS carried  the  following  front  page  headline:  “Magufuli’s   style  wins  hearts  in  Africa”;  and  went  on  as  follows:  President  John  Magufuli  has  become  a  continental  icon  with  just  a  month  in  office,  and  without  even  crossing  the  country’s  borders”. The Paper  then  reproduced  captions  of  leading  newspapers  in  South  Africa,  Ghana,  Nigeria,  and  Zimbabwe;  all  of  them  showering  praises  on  President  John  Magufuli’s  exemplary  performance.    You  could  call  it  “Magufuli-philia”. And  on  the  occasion  of  the  commemoration  of  the  2018  African  Human  Rights  Day,  a  Forum  meeting of  Human  Rights  NGOs  which  assembled  in  Banjul,  with  a  total  of  18  Tanzanian  Human  Rights  Civil  Society  Organizations  represented,  “called  on other  African  Heads  of  State  to  take  a  leaf  from  President  Magufuli’s  fight  against  corruption”. This  was  a  manifest  proof  of  the  international  approval  accorded  to  President  Magufuli  for  his  exemplary  performance  in  that  particular  area. My  involvement in the   2015  Presidential  election The  CCM  Constitution  establishes,  at  the  national  level,    a  ‘Council  of  Elders’,   consisting  of  all  the  retired  CCM  national  Chairmen (retired  CCM Presidents),  and   all  their   Vice-Chairmen. At  the  time  of  writing,  retired  Chairman  Ali  Hassan  Mwinyi  is  the   Chairman;  and   myself,  retired  Vice-Chairman,   the   Secretary. It  is  a  wholly  Advisory  Council,  which  therefore  convenes  only  when  there  is  a  grave  matter,  in  respect  of  which  the  incumbent  Chairman  feels  he  needs  to  be  advised  by  this  Council. The  2015  Presidential  election  was  one  such  grave  matter.  Thus,  the  Chairman,  President   Jakaya  Kikwete,  felt  he  needed the  advice  of  the  Elders’   Council;   which   was  therefore  convened  for  that  purpose.   After  a  private   session with  President  Kikwete  at  State  house,   Dar es Salaam,  the  Elders’  Council  was  invited  to  attend  the  crucial  candidate  selection  meeting  of  the  National  Executive  Committee   in  Dodoma;   at  which  John  Pombe   Magufuli  was  among  the  three  candidates  selected,  by  secret  vote,  to  be  presented  to  the  CCM  national  Congress. President  Magufuli’s  electionThe  CCM  national  Congress   selected  Dr.  John  Pombe  Joseph  Magufuli  to  be  the  CCM  flag  bearer.   And  he  won  the  2015  Presidential  election,  having  obtained  58.46%,  over  his  closest  challenger,  former Prime  Minister  Edward  Lowassa,  who  garnered  39.97%  of  the  total  valid  votes.                                     President Magufuli’s  performance  was  manifestly   low   compared  to  his  predecessors;  which  is  illustrative  of  how  Chama  cha  Mapinduzi  faced  an  uphill  task  in  this  particular  election.  It  also  speaks  volumes,  to  how  CCM  made  a  very  wise  choice  and  decision,  that  enabled  it  to  retain  power  amidst  such  fierce  competition. President  Magufuli’s  inauguration  of the  new  Parliament There  are  two  major  constitutional  functions  that  must  be  performed  by  the  President  of  the  United republic  of  Tanzania.  One  is  the  official  opening  of  the  newly  elected  parliament;  and  the  other  is  the  dissolution  of  that  Parliament,  at  the  end  of its  statutory  five-year  period.    On  20th  November,  2015;  President  Magufuli  entered  Parliament,  in  appropriate  manner  and  style,  to  officially  inaugurate   the  newly  elected  11th    Parliament. In   his   maiden  speech,  President  Magufuli  vowed  to  confront  the  evils  of  mega  corruption,  by  promising  to  establish  a   special  Division  of  the  High  Court,  which  would  deal  exclusively  with  graft  cases. He  also  promised  to  fight the  wide  spread  embezzlement  of  public  funds;  and  to  improve  the  management  of   the  country’s  natural  resources. He  promised  to    overhaul  the  mining  sector;  to  end  bureaucracy  in  Government  offices;   and   to  introduce  strict  discipline  in  the  public  service;  to  increase  Government  revenue  collections;  and  to  improve  the  infrastructures  relating  to  the  country’s  Social  and  Economic  services.  To  some  people,  it  all  sounded  like  a  ‘shot  in  the  dark’,  as  they    appeared  to  be    promises  that  cannot  be  implemented. But  President  Magufuli  meant  business,  and,  indeed,  has   ‘walked  his  talk’,  as  evidenced  by   his  other  speech  dissolving   the  11th  Parliament  on  16th  June,  2020;  wherein,  amid  thunderous  applause  and  cheers  from  the  MPS,   he  succinctly  presented  the  huge  success  story  of  his  unprecedented  performance  in  implementing  all  these  promises.    The  distinguished  gathering  of  invited  guests,   included  all  the  former (retired)  Presidents  of  he  United  Republic. His  subsequent  performance  as  President President  Magufuli  has  certainly  changed  Tanzania  for  the  better.  However,     even  more  important  is  the  fact  that  he  has  been  able  to  do  so  in  an  incredibly  short  period  of time.   The  following  is  a  short  list   of  some  of   President  Magufuli’s  outstanding  achievements  during  his  first  term  in  office:- •              He   successfully  embarked  on  a  bold,  new  style  of  managing  the  country’s  natural  resources,  and  in  particular,  the  mineral  resources. •              He    introduced  new   austerity,  frugality  and  other  measures,  aimed  at  ensuring  that  public  funds  are  saved,   and  used   for  the   benefit of  the  majority  of  the  country’s  citizens,  particularly  the  residents of  the  vast  rural  areas  of Tanzania. •              His  success  in  his  brave  fight  against  mega  grafts,  that  were  like  an  albatross  around the  country’s  neck;  and  other  vices  such  as  poaching,  drug  trafficking,  money  laundering,   and  embezzlement.   This  does  not  mean  that  his  predecessors  did  nothing  in  fighting  these  vices,   they  surely  did.   But  President  Magufuli  took  the  fighting  to  a  much  higher  level  of  seriousness  and  determination. •              His  success  in  making   a  very  bold  assault  on  ghost  workers  in  the  Public  Service,  as  well  as   on  ghost University  students;  a  loophole  that  was  used  by  crooks  to  steal  Government  money,   by  secretly  pocketing  the  salaries  of  ghost  workers,  and  loans  to  ghost University  students. •              His  success  is  vastly  increasing  the  country’s  tax  revenues;  which  have  enabled  him  to   revive  some  of  the  mega  economic  projects  that  had  become  defunct;   like  the  shift  of  the  Government  capital  to  Dodoma;   the  Stigler’s  gorge  electricity  generation  project;  the  reviving  of  the  national  Airline  (ATCL);    plus  introducing  new  projects   like  the Standard  Gauge Railway  project (SGR),  and  the  construction  of  new  large  passenger  and  cargo  ships  and  ferries,  to  ply  on  the  country’s  major  Lakes  of  Victoria,  Nyasa,  and  Tanganyika;  the  construction  of  numerous  District  hospitals ;  roads  and  bridges;  and  other  infrastructures. •              His  success  in  reintroducing  discipline  and  ethics  in  the  country’s  Public  Service. This  may  be  correctly  referred  to  as  the  “Magufuli  effect”,  or  “Magufuliquake” /  “Magufulification”. President  Magufuli  assumes  the  CCM  Chairmanship. In  July,  2016;  CCM  Chairman  Jakaya  Kikwete  voluntarily  resigned  from  that  position,  in  order  to  clear  the  way  for  President  Magufuli  to  replace  him;  a  procedure  that   was  smoothly  accomplished. And  within  only  six  months  after  his  assumption  of  that  office,  Chairman  Magufuli  had  already  demonstrated  his  unique  leadership  style,  when  he  introduced  some  unprecedented,  “tsunami-type”  organizational  changes  in  the  Ruling  party;  whose  main  thrust  was  to  reduce  the  numbers  of  the  members  of  the  party’s  decision-making  organs  at  all  levels  of  the  Party  structure;  and,  in  particular,  the  National  Executive  Committee (NEC),  whose  membership  was  drastically  reduced  from a  high 388  members,  and  brought  down  to  a low  163  members.   And  this   was  quickly  followed  by  other  crucial   changes  in  the  party’s  leadership  personnel,   during  the  party’s   2017  general  elections. (To  be  continued  next  week) ppiomsekwa@gmail.com  /0754767576.   