GROWING demand for clean and safe water in Dodoma—Central Business District and authorities has been satisfied after drilling at least 10 boreholes to improve water supply. Dodoma Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Duwasa) Chief Executive Officer David Palangyo told Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, that demand for water was projected to be above 100 million litres a day, while the pumping capacity was only 48 million litres. “Our previous studies estimated the area's population to be about 400,000 people, but now the figure is above 600,000 people,” he said. Technically, the authority sourced its water in three key areas—Makutupora aquifer, the government city and the university of Dodoma. Makutopora aquifer pump now pumps nearly 61 million litres while the University of Dodoma (Udom) source and government city has the capacity to produce 2.4 million litres and 2.7 million litres respectively. “These two areas - the government city and Udom - only supply water in a specific area, making a shortage of the resource to about 37 million litres,” he said. The uthority, however, said at the moment if the Makutupora-based source pumped at least 55 million litres there would likely be no water rationing. “We have alternatively agreed that we will limit the supply of water by at least a day in each area, when there is a shortage of supply to ensure every customer access water supply,” he noted. An increase in water demand was expected in Dodoma especially after the government moved its administration from Dar es Salaam. Duwasa believed there had been massive construction and expansion work of new residences that all needed water supply. The CEO said in the meantime, the authority would drill 10 boreholes to help improve water supply in new areas. Dr Mahenge said, however, after touring water sources in the city that there was no need to panic as the authority was working to resolve the water supply shortage. According to the RC, Duwasa has until July 25, this year, to ensure it has completed the drilling of new boreholes. He also challenged the authority to address water leakages that stood between 28 and 30 per cents. Dodoma City Director Godwin Kunambi said the council had also received money from the central government and development partners to improve water supply and sanitation in the city. He urged residents in the region to harvest rainwater for domestic consumption.