PRESIDENT John Magufuli’s administration is setting the tone in the prevention and control of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), which globally kill 41 million people annually. Since stepping into the exalted office in 2015, President Magufuli’s Fifth Phase government has made significant reforms in the health sector, which includes building of new health facilities and improve the quality and services provided by the existing ones. The government’s move has significantly helped to cut spending on patients, who would otherwise require treatment abroad because such facilities are currently readily available in the country. In fact, according to President Magufuli’s speech when dissolving the 11th Parliament in Dodoma on June 16th this year, the number of patients seeking referral outside the country has decreased by 95 per cent. The availability of reliable health services in the country has somewhat eased disease burden and improved the quality of life that results primarily from a growing epidemic of NCDs. Non communicable diseases or better known as chronic diseases, include pulmonary-respiratory disease, diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease mostly resulting from the disproportionate use of tobacco. A preliminary report on the level of tobacco use by adults in the community launched by the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu here this month, showed that the level of tobacco consumption had dropped to 8.7 per cent from 14.1 per cent in 2012. According to the latest data, 14.6 males use tobacco, down from 28 per cent recorded in the corresponding year under review. “The survey indicates that nine out of ten people (about 92.3 per cent) above 15 years old are aware that use of cigarette may result in diseases, while 84.4 per cent others believe cigarette smoke has health effects,” she said. The 2016-2020 strategic and action plan for the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases lists other chronic diseases as sickle cell, which, if left untreated, can account for between 50-90 per cent child mortality. Injuries and trauma caused by road traffic accidents and assaults as well as mental health has also added up to the health burden. Both the binding document alongside the 2015-2020 ruling Chama cha Mapinduzi election manifesto had called for health sector reforms, government policy to relieve the treatment burden for patients and their families backed by intensified coverage of healthcare services. President Magufuli said when dissolving the 11th parliament in Dodoma that his government had delivered the promise by building a total of 1,769 health facilities across the country. The facilities; 1,198 dispensaries, 487 health centres, 71 district hospitals, 10 regional hospitals including the MwalimuNyerere Memorial Hospital in Mara, whose construction hit a snag since 1970 and three more zonal hospitals are crucial in improving healthcare services. “This brings 8,783 total number of health facilities from 7,014 in 2015. In addition, we have recruited 14,479 health practitioners rising the number of professionals to 100,631 from 86, 152,” he said. The president said the number of mothers giving birth at hospitals, thereby reducing the infant and child mortality has dropped. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that non communicable diseases account for 65 per cent of all deaths in the country, with cases such as cardiovascular, injuries, cancer, respiratory and diabetes accounting for 12, 8, 3, 3, and 2 per cent, respectively. The ministry of health says the prevalence of hypertension is estimated to be around 26 per cent. “The ministry prioritised community sensitisation on a healthy diet and physical activities. The target has also been on early detection and appropriate management of cases such as cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes at all levels,” reads part of a statement from the ministry. The statement indicates that the government plans to reduce chronic respiratory diseases by 20 per cent this year, increase coverage of HPV vaccine for school girls aged 9-13 years by 80 per cent and reduce overall mortality from cancer by 20 per cent. “The ministry of health in collaboration with stakeholders has also outlined a plan to reduce the suicide rate (by 10 per cent), depression (10 per cent) and increase the provision of comprehensive, integrated and responsive mental health and social care service in the community by 20 per cent,” it said. Agatha John, who in 2014 started experiencing pain in her chest, throat and discomfort at secondary school in Dodoma, did not pinpoint the source of the problem. But the completion of construction work for the Benjamin Mkapa Ultra-modern Hospital (BMH) eventually diagnosed her with cardiac complications. She received interventions and treatment. BMH Executive Director Dr Alphonse Chandika said 13,600 infants are born with cardiac complications in which 3,400 advance to a stage that needs surgery interventions.