THE Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance has congratulated President John Magufuli on the remarkable achievements of his government over the nearly five years  of his reign in all economic, political and social sectors. The Chairman of the Commission, Retired High Court Judge Mathew Mwaimu, gave the congratulations  in a statement issued over the weekend, in reaction to the speech he gave while closing the 11th Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania on June 16, 2020 in Dodoma. "The Commission on Human Rights and Good Governance sincerely commends Dr John Magufuli, the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, for his speech outlining the remarkable achievements in the five-year term of his administration, from 2015 to 2020," reads part of the statement. Judge Mwaimu explained that the speech described in detail various economic, political and social achievements attained during the period. In addition, he said, the speech cited various steps taken by the government to strengthen human rights and the principles of good governance. "The President outlined  that the country's economy grew by 6.9 per cent from 6.2 per cent in 2015 with gross domestic product increasing from 345 million to 1,399 million, making Tanzania one of 10 largest economies in Africa and that the rate of poverty decreased to 26.4 per cent by 2020," he stated. According to him, the Commission said such economic growth had facilitated the strengthening of  access to various economic and social rights. In respect of human rights, Judge Mwaimu said, the president outlined, among other things, achievements in access to the right to health, education and access to safe and clean water. He stated further that the Fifth Phase Government had expanded and moved closer to the public a number of health care facilities, including dispensaries, health centres, as well as district, regional, referral and zonal hospitals. "Regarding the education sector, the government continued to provide free education to primary and secondary schools as well as increasing primary and secondary schools, vocational training, building dormitories, laboratories and increasing the budget for higher education loans. In promoting good governance and justice, the commission's chairman noted that the Fifth Phase Government appointed 17 judges of the Court of Appeal and 52 of the High Court and employed 890 other judicial officers, including 396 magistrates. Additionally, he said, the government built two high courts, five resident magistrates courts, 15 district courts and 18 primary courts. Such measures, Judge Mwaimu stated, have helped to speed up the hearing of cases and thus  facilitating timely access to justice. He observed also that over the past five years, the government reduced the congestion of inmates in prisons whereby 2,812 inmates had been set free after the cases they were facing were dropped, while the president pardoned 42,774 of them. Furthermore, the government strengthened ethics and discipline at work places, whereby a total of 32,555 employees were  subjected to various disciplinary measures, including demotions, salary reductions and issuance of severe warnings. "In addition, 15,508 employees were dismissed for having been found with fake certificates and 19,708 ghost workers were identified, something which was costing the government 198bn/- every month," he stated. On corruption, the Commission's Chairman stated that the Prevention and Combating of Corruption (PCCB) opened 2,256 cases, of which 1,926 had already been decided. "In protection of justice and democracy in the country, the Head of State once again reiterated his promise made at Union Day celebrations held in Mwanza on April 26, 2020, reassuring Tanzanians that the 2020 General Election will be free and fair," the retired judge further stated in the statement. He further explained that in keeping  with that promise, the president has called on political parties and politicians to prepare themselves to participate fully in the elections and to avoid insults, mockery and to put God first during the election campaign. According to him, the Commission urges Tanzanians to continue to defend and appreciate various steps taken by the government to protect human rights and to maintain peace and tranquility as well as respect for human rights and principles of good governance for sustaining national peace and stability. "The Commission on Human Rights and Good Governance once again congratulates the president by giving great hope to the people in continuing to focus on human rights and the principles of good governance in the country," the Commission's Chairman stated.