THE Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), yesterday said the disbursed 1m/-to each club parading in the First Division League (FDL) and Second Division League (SDL), will help to lessen their financial burdens. This was said by the board’s Chairman Stephen Mguto, who insisted that despite the amount being small; It will have a positive impact as the teams prepare to round off the season. “It is true that we have dished out 1m/-to the FDL and SDL teams so that it can assist in their preparations of wrapping up the season. We know that the released amount is small but at least, they have somewhere to turn to, ahead of their upcoming fixtures,” he said. He therefore, called upon clubs to go extra mile and seek their own sponsors to enable them run their activities without problems, saying managing a team is very expensive. According to the recent published fixtures, FDL matches are scheduled to restart on June 29th this year up to July 12th this year, when the season will be completed. However, despite FDL and SDL being the foundation of the top flight league, both leagues operate without sponsors and to make it worse, the games are not broadcast live. This has prompted many sport pundits to question why potential sponsors ignore to come aboard and pump in money to drive the two leagues well bearing in mind that it is where players and teams, which features in the Mainland Premier League originates. In group A of the FDL, it is a three team fight for promotion to the top flight next season. They are--Dodoma FC, Ihefu FC and Mbeya Kwanza FC. The capital city representatives Dodoma FC lead the table with 24 points from 12 games followed by Ihefu, who have the same number of points (24) from equal number of matches but goal difference separates them. Mbeya Kwanza are not away from the chase as they occupy third slot with 22 points, while African Lyon and Majimaji FC finish up the top pack after getting 21 and 19 points respectively. On the other hand, in group B of FDL, Gwambina FC look sharp to step into the top flight contest as they top the pile with 24 points from 12 outings, closely followed by Geita Gold, who have pocketed 22 points after the same number of games. Arusha FC are third with 19 points whereas Gipco FC and Mawenzi Market occupies fourth and fifth places with 18 and 17 points in hand.