TAKE a walk East or West home is the best place to live, get shelter, food, water, companion and air. However, you and I should know that home would not be homely if we don’t protect and respect what makes it complete as an environment. It is more of a moral obligation for people, wherever they are to protect the environment from all sorts of abuse, which includes pollution, because at the end of the day they lead to environmental degradation. This environment once well protected will ensure us of preserved diversity of water dependent animals and plants, which also preserve various natural services of aquatic ecosystems, because healthy ecosystems clean our water, purify our air, maintain our soil, regulate the climate, recycle nutrients and provide us with food. We should note the same environment provides us with raw materials and resources for medicines and other purposes. They are at the foundation of all civilisations and sustain our economies. It's that simple: we could not live without these “ecosystem services”. They are what we call our natural capital. As citizens, we need to realise that environmental conservation is not only important for people living in it, but also we need to save it from collapse due to pollution and other human activities in communities. This approach helps to save both trees and animals as both are essential for us to survive, knowing very well that it offers us fresh air and clean water, it maintains the outside temperature, preserves nature, biodiversity, and ecosystem and gives  growth to more plant species for our medicine. The list may be long as benefits we accrue from an environment, hence collective, we should address our activities, which alter and trigger climate change, soil erosion, poor air quality, and undrinkable water, in a nutshell abuse the environment. It is unfortunate that pollution of our environment is everywhere. From the trash we throw out on the freeway, that according to World Wide Fund for Nature data, about 2.4 billion people do not have access to clean water sources because of it. Humanity is continuously polluting indispensable resources like air, water, and soil which requires millions of years to replenish. Scientifically taking of global warming that is arguably the greatest cause of impact to the environment is our own making. The largest of causes emanating through CO₂ levels from respiration to more detrimental causes like burning fossil fuels and deforestation is our own fault.