ALL is set for golfers to colour the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam today, with several match play friendly battles. The battles, resume few days after Lugalo Club Chairman Michael Luwongo announced that the course is ready to host golfers as the government allowed sports activities to restart from last Monday. The friendly encounters excited golfers, who are now ready to bring back happy times at the club, which shut down activities for the past two months due to Covid-19 pandemic. The club Communication Officer Seleman Semunyu said that preparations are finalised for the battle, which is sponsored by Triple Seven. The event will be televised live by Medani TV. Lugalo Captain Japhet Masai will be among players, who will be facing big test at golf course. He is scheduled to test his golf skills against senior golfer, Femin Mabachi at 18 holes stroke play battle today. All activities are set to observe strict preventive measures against Corona virus, which include social distancing, washing hands with running water and soaps or frequent use of sanitisers. Playing off handicap 6, Masai and handicap 14 Mabachi will be among activities as club set to thrill the day. Mabachi said: “I respect Masai because he is my club captain, but I heard him saying that is going to beat me just because I’m senior to him and his handicap is better too, it is not going to be that easy. “I’m well prepared, ready for the Saturday (today) tee off. I’m going to teach him a lesson that he will never forget…age does not matter when it comes to golf. I do not see how he is going to escape defeat, no matter how hard he is prepared,” remarked Mabachi. Other battles will see Dar Bogies group that comprises Lugalo members, who works for Dar-based banks facing each other. Among the battles, is between Kiki Ayonga, who will take on Ernest Sengeu’s challenge. Speaking ahead his battle, Ayonga piled pressure on his opponent, saying that he should take his time to practice if he has any desire to beat him. “I’m well prepared to beat Sengeu. I know he is a good player but I’m better than him…he should rest assured that I will win and hand him 100,000/- as well as buy him ‘nyama choma’ after,” he said.