THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), intends to take to court Mpamatwa Primary School head teacher for allegedly forging documents and illegally obtaining 469,500/-from school accounts. PCCB regional commander, Sostheness Kibwengo said the head teacher allegedly committed the offences in June 2019. “The head teacher forged signatures of two illegal meetings to approve a withdrawal of money while knowing it is contrary to law,” he said. The forged minutes of the meetings were submitted to the Bahi District Executive director for endorsement. Mr Kibwengo, who was giving a briefing on a recent PCCB operation, said the suspect would be arraigned and charged with four counts of corruption this week. He also said the PCCB had successfully returned 13 farms owned by some Makole villagers in Kongwa District that had been seized by Nelson Ndalu. A statement from PCCB indicates that Mr Ndalu had loaned some villagers. A 30-hectare farm was loaned with 100 percent interest, pushing debtors to fail to service their loans. Mr Ndalu, who is commonly known as Osama, is on a wanted list, but after PCCB’s intervention, he agreed to return the farms to the right owners. Similarly, PCCB in Dodoma also retrieved a plot at Iyumbu Q to the City Director. The plot was unlawfully obtained with the help of the former Capital Development Authority (CDA) accountant. PCCB investigation found the payment of 43m/-in 2016 and a receipt issued in 2017. “This wasn’t the actual payment,” Mr Kibwengo said, adding that the accountant had denied the allegations. Meanwhile, Ms Zarbon Richard (32), a midwife at Chamwino Dispensary has already been arraigned charged with asking for a 100,000/-bribe to attend to a woman who needed uterine dilation and curettage service. The health worker had received a 60,000/-upfront payment for the service. Unfortunately, the commander said another patient who needed a similar service was denied and required to pay the same amount. “The procedure is illegal and should there be any payment required, the amount was to be paid to the hospital and not to an individual,” he said. 