SIMBA SC head to the Mainland Premier League throne today, but they have first to grab three points from Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. A victory or even a draw can help the Dar es Salaam giants reach their desired goal. The game, is not going to be staged behind closed doors as it was previously announced, but fans will attend matches after strictly observing social distancing system as directed by health experts. A win will see Simba knocking 80 points which none of their closest challengers can manage in the remaining seven matches of the league. Second placed Azam FC with 58 points can reach 79 points if they win all seven matches while the third-placed Young Africans who have penned 60 points, have 78 points as their maximum gain. Again, the victory will enable Simba to accomplish their six-point mission they set as a target prior to travelling to the Southern Highlands region. They began their mission with a 2-0 victory over Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium, to make their campaign hit a half of the target. It was skipper John Bocco who pumped a brace on the day to navigate his side to the crucial glory and make them a inches away from the third silverware. However, Tanzania Prisons will also not be willing to let the visitors enjoy a smooth ride on their turf and preferably to enable Simba win champions at their expanse. The two sides shared spoils when they met in the first round of the league as such, each of them will be interested to break the deadlock and show who is superior over the other. The hosts go into the encounter after recording a 2-2 draw with JKT Tanzania in their previous away match at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma and are placed 10th on the table with 42 points. Speaking recently, Simba Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck said their focus to win all games remains unchanged even though when assured the league throne. "We will not change anything against Tanzania Prisons and we will do what we always do. The players have had good mental rest which is very important ahead of the clash," he said. He also narrated that they need to concentrate much on the upcoming Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), games saying it is also their priority this season. On his part, Tanzania Prisons coach Adolf Rishard said they have an objective to finish on top ten this season hence that can only be achieved if they win against Simba and other matches. "We are aware that we will face a good team who are the defending champions and are searching their third title but we are ready for the game," he said. In another development Simba is expected to earn a total of 512 million shillings for winning the league title which is the cash prize award from the club’s Board of Directors Chairman, Mohamed Dewji alias ‘MO’ and other club’s sponsors to be distributed among the players and technical bench staffs. Meanwhile the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), has unveiled that the title present for the league champions will be on the last day of the 2019/20 season on July 26 as of part of season closure celebrations. However, the board has given Simba a chance to request for a special date of the trophy presentation.