AT least 15 people have received kidney stone treatment at Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) since the hospital installed an extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) machine in March this year. The 400-bed hospital became the first health facility in the country to install the ESWL machine which uses high-energy shock waves to break down kidney stones into small crystals. After the procedure, the kidney stones should be small enough to move into your ureters that allow urine to pass from one’s kidneys to the bladder and then out of one’s body through urine. BMH Executive Director, Dr Alphonce Chandika, noted on Thursday that the management had come up with an idea to install the state-of-the art machine due to a good number of cases of patients with kidney stones at BMH. “We came up with an idea to introduce kidney stone treatment due to a good number of kidney stone cases at BMH,” said the executive director while briefing Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, who toured the hospital. Accompanied by Dodoma Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Duwasa) Director General David Pallangyo, the RC visited BMH to inspect water supply at the zonal referral hospital. Dr Chandika further informed the RC that BMH had become the first hospital in the country to perform kidney transplant by using Tanzanian medics in March this year. “We became the first hospital in the country to perform renal transplant without support of foreign doctors in March,” he said. For his part, Dr Mahenge commended BMH for becoming the first hospital in the country to perform kidney transplant by using Tanzanian medical specialists. “I want to congratulate BMH on becoming the first hospital in the country to perform kidney transplant independently,” he said. BMH started performing kidney transplant thanks to support of Japan-based Tokushukai Medical Group doctors in 2018. So far, the hospital had performed at least 13 kidney transplant surgeries since the health facility had introduced the medical service.