AZAM FC in collaboration with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) will today run a blood donation exercise before their Mainland Premier League match against Mbao FC at Azam Complex this evening. The campaign has specifically been organised to mark the World Blood Donor Day, which falls on June 14th annually. Azam announced yesterday that before going into the stadium, people will have an opportunity to donate blood. “We have decided to take a leading part in donating blood upon realising that there are many people in hospitals, who need blood to save their lives,” said the club's Information Officer Thabit Zakaria. He added that the exercise will be preceded by a friendly match between workers of Azam and TFF prior to the start of their league encounter set at 7:00 pm. “We hope to see many people coming to embrace the exercise, which will happen outside the stadium premises under the supervision of the National Blood Transfusion Service (NBTS),” he said. In another development, the club announced that the procedures to facilitate smooth running of its activities are going well under the guidance of FIFA and CAF instructors. “They will hold a seminar with different departments of the club such as the management, coaches, players, information department and workers on how to do their works properly to propel the club further,” said part of the statement posted by the club on its website. Azam, who are second on the league table with 54 points from 28 matches will approach the game differently as six of their foreign based players have not yet returned back to rejoin the team. The players who are goalkeeper Razack Abalora, Daniel Amoah and Yakubu Mohammed (Ghana), Bruce Kangwa, Never Tigere and Donald Ngoma (Zimbabwe) are still in Covid-19 lockdown in their respective nations. Ugandan Nicholas Wadada jetted back on Friday. Moreover, Zambian striker Obrey Chirwa is a doubt for Mbao clash as he is reportedly responding to treatment after picking up an injury, meaning Azam squad will totally be different. They however had two build up matches against Trans Camp (0-0) and KMC (1-1) prior to today’s encounter, which gives a chance to other players in the team to reveal their abilities. Mbao face a daunting task to remain in the top flight league next season as they sit 19th on the log with 23 points hence picking maximum points from every game on their way will help them escape relegation jaws.