THE Mainland Premier League is finally on. But the main challenge remains with the fans. They would be required to social distancing to avoid infecting themselves with corona virus. Luckily, the ministry responsible for sports has already taken a commendable lead on this touching issue. The other day the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Hassan Abbasi made it clear that whoever violates social distancing would face the music. Abbasi, who is also the government Chief Spokesman, did not stop there. He warned that any stadium that would not ensure social distancing among fans would not only be punished, but that would mark the end of hosting matches in such a stadium. But nothing may have touched the hearts and minds of Tanzanians, than what was done by the management of Azam FC on their newly renovated stadium. The management has calibrated, through painting, the fans’ seats in order to ensure that there is a space of one metre from one soccer fan to another. The Azam management has also done the same thing on the VIP section. Between every two seats, a seat is covered with white cloth in a way that does not allow a person sit on such a seat. This is what is called creativity that the Azam FC management came up with. And, one hopes that those responsible for the sprawling National Stadium would emulate what their counterparts have done. For, unless stadia managements where local premier league matches are expected to be held do what the Azam FC management has done, it would be extremely difficult for officials in such stadia to manage the crowd in their stadia. Indeed, how do you enforce the at least one metre social distancing between two soccer fans when there is nothing to indicate that on their bench or between seats in the VIP? The next challenge, the calibration of benches and seats in the stadium notwithstanding, is what happens when the match is over or when a team has scored a goal against its opponent? It is easier to deal with the excitement of the crowd when a goal is scored if stadia benches are calibrated with colours. The fans will have to jump up and down within their already designated seats or benches. But when the match is finally over, fans filing out of the stadium would be expected to do so while simultaneously maintaining the social distancing between one fan and the other. But for stadia infested with pick-pockets, it would be extremely difficult for them to get close to their victims as they are likely to find themselves confronted with two, serious charges; one, that of violating social distancing, and two; an attempt to steal from another. Therefore, if there is anything positive about the corona virus pandemic and which we may need to maintain even in the post-corona virus pandemic, it would be this leash against pickpocketers in our stadia. Pick-pocketers will really have to look for alternative means of earning their living and not through their art of relieving others of their hard-earned money. In the place where I live, three youths have already died, at different times, during this corona virus pandemic at the hands of mob justice after they tried to break into houses in the dead of the night. Pick-pocketers in stadia will surely have to look for alternative, respectable jobs than the one they are currently involved in because social distancing does not allow them to come cross to their would-be victims. When I was writing this piece, yesterday, Young Africans were already in the diamond mining region of Shinyanga in readiness against Mwadui FC, a team that has always provided problems both to Yanga and their arch-soccer rivals, Simba. The final start of the local league would provide us, as I had occasion to say two weeks ago, the litmus test over whether or not the players had adhered to their respective coaches’ self-training programmes during the sports lockdown in the country. For teams whose players had adhered to self-training programmes, their performance on the pitch are more likely to be better than those who did not. But one wonders for teams like Azam and Simba whose foreign players may not be around in the first matches. But both teams should thank the Ethiopian Airlines, which has already resumed its flights, including in the countries where the two teams’ foreign players come from. If there is any lesson that both Simba and Azam FC have learnt during this corona virus pandemic, is the need not to one’s ‘all eggs’ in one basket. One hopes that both teams will, from now onwards, spent more time scouting for local talent before they think of buying foreign players. Buying foreign players is not bad. But the two teams should not have allowed their players to go back home. All top flight European clubs did not allow their foreign players to leave for their respective homes for fear that they would pick up weight and secondly, it may be difficult to get them back after the end of the corona virus pandemic. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/ author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk