MAINLAND Premier League defending champions, Simba will miss the service of key holding midfielder, Jonas Mkude, when they resume their title defence campaign tomorrow. After 94 days, the league actions resume today with two fixtures lined up on the day—Young Africans versus Mwadui, while Coastal Union face Namungo FC. The government suspended all sports activities in the country for about three months following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Simba will be in action against Ruvu Shooting at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow and they will be without Mkude, who sustained an injury during a warm up tie against KMC at MO Simba Arena in Dar es Salaam on Monday. It is reported that Mkude will be out for at least two weeks as he recovers for the knock sustained when battling for the ball with KMC defender Kelvin Kijili, who has since apologised for his bad tackle. Simba emerged with a 3-1 victory but had the price to pay as Mkude was stretched out of the pitch before being rushed to the nearby hospital. Initially, the club reported that Mkude’s injury was not serious but after further scanning, new development was disclosed that the midfielder will be out of action for about two weeks. Meanwhile, Simba captain John Bocco said players have directed their focus on the clash against Ruvu Shooting tomorrow. Bocco said the league will be tough because most teams have been training hard, but Simba determination is to start positively their first game. The captain added that all the players with exception of injured Mkude are in great form and high morale ready for the battle. “We know the league will be tough because all teams have been preparing but our focus is to win each game starting this Sunday (tomorrow) against Ruvu Shooting so that we put ourselves in a better position to defend our title,” said Bocco. Runaway Simba are on top of the table with 71 points, massive 17 points ahead of second placed Azam and 20 ahead of third placed Young Africans, who have a game in hand.