ASSOCIATION of tour guides in the southern circuit has asked the government and Kisarawe District authorities to continue constructing and improving the road connecting the district to the Nyerere National Park. The group said it would be more appropriate if the road was upgraded to tarmac level to facilitate tourism activities in the national park which was formed from part of the area of Selous reserved forests. Speaking during their visit aimed at seeing tourism attractions at the national park, the stakeholders thanked President John Magufuli for his efforts in strengthening the tourism sector in the country along with improving infrastructure. General Secretary of the association, Mr Dioniz Kazungu, told Kisarawe District Commissioner (DC), Jokate Mwegelo that due to strong leadership of the fifth phase government the country’s tourism sector has continued to prosper. “We thank President Magufuli for giving desirable importance to the tourism sector, we support him in ensuring that the sector brings development,” Mr Kazungu noted. He said the poor state of the road to the Nyerere National Park was a big challenge and was hindering growth of the tourism in the area. DC, Mwegelo said the association has played a major role in creating awareness among residents of Kisarawe over importance of the tourism. “In Kisarawe we have many tourism opportunities that were unknown. I thank President Magufuli for declaring the Nyerere National Park because his decision has brought many opportunities,” she stated. Ms Mwegelo said the district is rich of tourism attractions, mainly about country’s history, encouraging tour guides to bring tourists to the district which is located near to the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), in Dar es Salaam. “At district level we are working on the matter to ensure that the road to Mwalimu Nyerere National Park is improved. Agenda for this road always comes up and is discussed during our meetings,” she assured. The road was opened late last year and tour guides started using it to send the tourists to the park.