REPORTS across the world now indicate that countries are slowly lessening lockdown measures and governments, businesses are beginning to returning to their routine work. But, scrutinized judgmentally, there is a swelling camouflaged nervousness concerning swift comeback to set-up that, invariably has been tasted and now struggling to manage pattern instigated by effects of Covid-19. Both industrialists, small or large, in developed and emerging nations including those trading on shares are trying to turn around and restructure their business, next deals approach with results that, in my opinion can only be labelled as a work in progress. Shocks such as DSE recording zero trading on 5th June 2020, quoted in the media shouldn’t spark an alarm as a strange phenomenon for more than 20 years of establishment, instead to accept, the truth that Covid-19 has spited venomous into business, the way poisonous snakes inoculate its victim. Looking into how things are unfolding as each, eyes on whether comeback strategies will work, there is a need to make a distinction between alternative market entry strategies from the common known tradition and strategic market entries albeit focusing on competitive deals. Planning for a market entry at this Covid-19 effects time is a decision process which must include both visionary and rational elements. The visionary angle can be compared with the mental state and vision of explorer like Livingstone when planning to enter Africa searching for the source of the Nile. Livingstone took risks, because there was tremendous curiosity for the unknown environment and his mental willingness to take risks is what is similar to those looking to return into business. In today’s Covid-19 setting, this could be compared to an entry strategy based on luck and sensitivity. An Old Dutch saying states that there are many ways that lead to Rome. The government or businesses or industrialist or an individual must be aware that there are many ways came back but some routes are riskier than others. The selection of an entry and leadership to govern that entry is one crucial factor because once a conduit has been chosen; it is often difficult to change. If the wrong passage form is selected, the cost of changing can be great. After Covid-19 has disrupted goods and service and businesses in general, one artificial question facing industrialist is how the re-entry should be administered. Amidst Covid-19, and having examined businesses and how are coping with returning to normal, a variety of different forces-changing business trends, shifts in consumer preferences, the introduction of new brands, the emergence of new competition will at the very least distort entrants perceptions of what is actually happening in the market place. As businesses cope with effects of Covid-19, how can industrialist find his/her way in a new market through a maze of new strategic alliances, fragmented consumer segments, multiple interpretations of market surveys and other obstacles? Clearly, industrialist need to view these markets in a different perspective, to create a new way of thinking about stronger team work the instrument of which CEOs of businesses have to find their way through before becoming ineffective to businesses they lead. In re-entering market disrupted by fear and uncertainties of Covid-19, choosing strategic window and strategic fit is vital. Studies to-date shows that there are only limited period during which the strategic fit between the key requirements in a market, and the particular competence of a business in that market, is at optimal. In this case, as counties start to open up their economies, the strategic window is in my opinion open to hit back strategically. Industrialist need to be aware that managing the process of strategic management under time pressure is also part of a time management problem. In today’s businesses terrain, emerging from Covid-19 sound effects, constant risk-taking and testing are required simply to survive and in my view, businesses and their promoters, especially financiers can try anything including restructuring repayment plans for borrowing and write off bad loans or any measures viewed acceptable within the industry, as long as it is above the waterline. It means that the matter in question must not affect the basic integrity designers and of the establishment itself. As far as watching ahead, in the near future, we will begin to see the commencing of discourse and debate about what is the next normal. These debates and engagement and coordination are vital because pandemic shock of this scale, than ever before has created a shift in the preferences and expectations of governments, businesses, individuals as citizens, as employees, and as consumers. These swings and their impact have bearings on how we lead, how we communicate, how to measure performance and productivity and importantly to use technology and how entire workflow need to be readjusted to new system imposed by Covid-19. The transformation to quality leadership is often dramatic, and almost always traumatic. Change is seldom easy. It is unlikely anyone will figure out how to change an organisation without requiring its people to change. Therefore, we must all be sensitive to the problem that people will have with the transformation. Mechanically, some people understand the principle of leadership to lead businesses during hard time. But with Covid-19 amongst us, how to lead an organisation or establishment, how to make decisions, how to find out what the client wants, and providing enabling environment to make workforces do the best job they possibly will need mind-set change. Above these key principles, how to interpret data and story that emerges will be a key to success as leader as everyone handles with Covid-19 effects. In building business position entry strategy, time is a crucial factor. The building of an intelligence system and creating an image through campaign takes time, effort and money. Brand names that will offer dividend do not appear instantaneous. Large investments in promotion campaigns are needed along with dealing with pandemic effects. Transaction costs also are a critical factor in building up a market entry strategy and can become a high barricade to handle trade regionally, cross the border and internationally. Regardless of relieve gained in 2020/21 national budget, amidst dealing with Covid-19, for businesses physical distance, language barriers and logistics costs will need plan. These factors are important when considering a market entry strategy especially when positioning to recapture business. We need to try adjusting ourselves because Covid-19 has profoundly changed the way we live, interacting and doing business for the conceivable future. The pandemic has already caused  a  significant  economic  impact  on  the  world’s and regional’s economy affecting  financial  markets,  tourism,  manufacturing,  export  and import sectors, global supply chains, oil exports, and companies of all sizes. 