BIDDERS seeking to be awarded tenders to construct Msalato International Airport in Dodoma City now have more time to submit their bids after Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) pushed ahead the deadline. In its announcement made available to the media, the TANROADS stated that the deadline has been extended to 14th July instead of the earlier 29th May as alerted previously. The agency, which is responsible for supervising construction of all airports in the country, elaborated that the extension of the bids submission time was for the construction works of infrastructure which falls under Phase I, lot one and package one of the project to kick off. It was also meant for the bidders categorized under Phase I, lot one and package two of the project. The African Development Bank’s Board of Directors had approved a $272.12 million loan to Tanzania which will be used in the construction of the new Msalato International Airport 12km from the capital city. The funding is comprised of a $198.6 million loan from the African Development Bank, $23.52 million from the African Development Fund (ADF) and $50 million in co-financing with the Africa Growing Together Fund (AGTF). The project will focus on the construction of high-capacity airport infrastructure, which will meet and accommodate projected growth in air transport as a result of the city’s new role as an administrative capital of the country. Construction is expected to take four years and will include a passenger terminal, a runway and the installation of air navigation equipment. Other operational features- a fuel distribution company, water supply systems, electrical power distribution substations and a fire-fighting service will also be included. Expected annual capacity for the new Msalato International Airport will handle approximately 50,000 aircrafts and one million passengers, most of which are predicted to be international. The airport will benefit over 200 million passengers in East Africa, as well as international trade networksparticularly business travelers and tourists.