MORE than 60bn/-has been disbursed by the government to Longido District since 2015 for the provision of water and education services and for the construction and rehabilitation of roads. Longido MP, Dr Stephen Kiruswa, told CCM District Executive Committee that the money was disbursed to ensure every resident gets quality services in all areas. Dr Kiruswa said as Tanzanians paid tax they would also continue benefitting from better social services regardless of their political affiliations. He explained that most parts of Longido District had been without water for many years and it was in the fifth phase government that Tanzanians accessed safe and clean water and lived peacefully. Water supply has been obtained from West Kilimanjaro at 16bn/-. Mr Kiruswa handed over 96 iron sheets to Engushi Village, 100 others to Armane Village and 100 iron sheets for the construction of CCM offices. He also donated a motorcycle to Bodaboda Saccos in Longido Town and water tanks with the capacity of 120 litres of water to all Longido markets for the fight against the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, all worth 15.6m/-. The guest of honour was Arusha CCM Regional Chairman Zelothe Stephen. He said apart from the donation, he and his friends had offered 600m/-for different services in the constituency since his election while from the constituency fund 153m/- had been offered for development projects. Dr Kiruswa said in a stint of two years as an MP he had fulfilled most of his pledges and called upon members of the committee, CCM members and members of the public to afford him cooperation in the remaining time before the National Assembly was dissolved so that they could accomplish the remaining projects. Mr Kiruswa called upon members of the committee to unite and work closely to fulfill the remaining pledges. He also urged them to fight against corruption as the general election approached, saying many aspirants would be buying beer and clothes to bribe people in return for their votes. He congratulated Longido District Commissioner (DC), Frank Mwaisumbe on a job well done, saying the party and the nation needed such leaders for their development. Mr Mwaisumbe said he was working day and night to ensure the challenges facing the residents were addressed regardless of their political ideologies. He said he was happy that most parts of the district accessed water supply.