APPARENTLY, something unprecedented happened at the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) on June 5. For the first time in its history, there was no trading whatsoever at the DSE on that Friday, and that sent shockwaves down the spines of many stakeholders. To learn more about the fallouts of such a situation, we join a reporter of the daily broadsheet who penned an article titled: “DSE low turnover puts stockbrokers on cliff-edge” (June 8, p. 19). The article is presented in 15 one-sentence paragraphs. This means the sentences are long and can be difficult to follow. Let us look at four of these paragraphs, starting with paragraph one which reads as follows: “Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange Stock (sic!) (DSE) stockbrokerage business is hanging on a cliff-edge as the equities market recorded ‘the first ever in the history zero trading business last Friday’”. Do you get it? I don’t, unless the sentence is re-written to read as follows: “Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange Stock (DSE) stockbrokerage business is hanging on a cliff-edge as the equities market recorded ‘the first ever zero trading business in its history last Friday’”. The second paragraph is equally long and has some issues. Here goes: “Some analysts have it that ‘the problem’, ‘apart’ from coronavirus pandemic, the decline in turnover is ‘also’ attributed to the introduction of off-market transaction rules that ‘lowed’ block amount to 200m/- from 1.0bn/- and the trend ‘was’ started to be seen since January”. A number of words in the paragraph are unnecessary. Moreover the verb “to low” applies to cows. When cows low, they make their typical deep sound. Now, lowing or mooing cows and the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, wapi na wapi? Let us re-write the sentence: “Some analysts have it that, ‘apart’ from the coronavirus pandemic, the decline in turnover is attributed to the introduction of off-market transaction rules that ‘lowered’ the block amount to 200m/- from 1.0bn/-. The trend started to be felt from January”. In particular, please note that “to lower” means to reduce something in number, amount, value or strength. This is what happened at the DSE with regard to the minimum block amount. According to the reporter, the lowering of the block amount, is threatening the business of brokerage firms, especially the small ones who depend on fees from trading activities to cover expenses and to survive. Nevertheless, brokerage firms are not suffering in equal measure: “The largest ones, about three brokerage firms, have other sources of income but they will surely ‘fill’ the pinch of dropping turnovers”. No. They will not fill the pinch whatever that means. They will “feel the pinch” of dropping turnover. To feel the pinch means to have less money than you need. Let us end up by looking at paragraph 5, which, like others before and after it, is made up of just one sentence: “Thus, some stockbrokers called for immediate reforms to rescue the situation that was not only amplified by the coronavirus ‘contagious’ on Dar bourse but also caused by reducing off-market trading block amount”. Yes, we know that the coronavirus is highly contagious, but contagious was not the right word to use in the above sentence. The correct word was “contagion” which means “a disease that can be spread from one person to another through touch or through the air”. We are now in position to re-write the sentence: “Thus, some stockbrokers have called for immediate reforms to rescue the alarming situation on the Dar bourse that is not only amplified by the coronavirus ‘contagion’, but is also fuelled by the reducing of off-market trading block amount”. Note that we have changed the “mood” of the sentence to be in the present. ***** Do you realise that we are nearly halfway through the year 2020? Tempus fugit! Time to review your New Year’s Resolutions as you enjoy your weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com