TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institutes (TARI) through the Tengeru Centre of Arusha is introducing a Macadamia nut cultivation in the country, assuring its farmers that it has ready market overseas. Speaking at the institute, TARI Center of Tengeru Manager-in- Charge, Dr Stephen Uoko, said the tree’s species is renowned for being drought and several diseases resistant. “And what we are actually doing here is researching on solutions focusing on its seedlings productions with better yields to farmers and the country as a whole,” he said. Dr Uoko further said that the institute is experimenting with it in Arusha and other rain-fed regions, where it can adapt and grown countrywide. On her part, the TARI Coordinator of Research, Alice Kavishe said the crop commands high prices in international markets, especially in Europe and USA, where one processed kilogram sells at US $54 equivalent to 125,000/-. “We want to start supplying seedlings to local farmers, but we are constrained with inadequate land to grow enough seedlings to meet our demands,” she said. Commenting, while visiting the site, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Omary Mgumba said at the moment Tanzania was working to ensure that the country becomes self-sufficient in edible oil production, which Macadamia nuts can also supplement. “Tanzania is annually forced to spend a large amount of foreign currency to import edible oils and sugar. In this respect the edible oils from overseas cost the country over US $ 443,000 equivalent to 1.2 billion/-per year. “Tanzania has 17 Agricultural Research Centres and two are located in Arusha, hence we expect them to cooperate and come up with solutions of challenges facing our farmers in the entire industry. “We need seedlings and technology to produce Macadamia nuts and introduce the cultivation to local growers so that production increases countrywide,” stated the Deputy Minister. Locally one litre of edible oil produced from Macadamia nuts sells at over 12,000/-, and so valuable is the crop that in 2012, Kenya authorities complained that some dishonest traders were smuggling it outside the country. Meanwhile, Tanzania has been compelled to import 1 million tonnes of wheat to address the local demand of 1.1 million tonnes. Making the revelation during his recent tour of the crop growth at its agricultural research institutes in Arusha, Omary Mgumba said the government was spending over US $225 million yearly to import wheat, whereas the country has vast arable land for its cultivation. “We really need to address this situation; Researchers and farming experts must assist us to become self-sufficient in wheat production, because importing food is not only expensive but also does not guarantee us quality, safety and freshness,” he pointed out.