ON Wednesday this week, I wrote over the results of the litmus test following the restart, last week, of the local premier league. I brought the subject of the litmus test results to the fore because it was a subject I had spoken on, immediately after the slapping by the government of the sports lockdown three months ago as part of curbing the deadly corona virus pandemic in Tanzania. As we all know, after the imposition of the sports lockdown, most of the Mainland Premier League coaches were reported to have prepared self-training programmes for players of their respective clubs which they could work on, individually, in their homes. But concerns were also raised, at the same time, by some of the coaches over the adherence of their players to such self-training programmes. The coaches had argued that if it had been a problem for some of their players to train with their colleagues even before the corona virus pandemic, it would be difficult for such players to train individually. But now whether or not such self-training programmes were adhered to by the players is no longer a problem that one should tax his or her mind on. As we have all started to see the results, beginning with the first matches played last week and which had involved our oldest soccer rivals, Simba and Young Africans Sports Clubs. I therefore don’t need today to say who, between the two clubs got what. But both teams were expected to play their second matches this week. And more and more players who had adhered to the self-training programmes in the course of the lockdown would be known as matches continue to be played. As they say, the talking is finally over. But going forward, match results are certain to expose clubs whose players had not adhered to their self-training programmes. The results we witnessed last week could be a tip of the iceberg. But fans will hopefully continue to bear witness to how strong their teams are as the local league continue to roll on towards the end of the season. But what is unfortunate is that just like what it had been before the sports lockdown over three months ago, clubs’ leaders have continued with their past times, the blurting out of excuses over their clubs’ failure to perform. Even after the three months sports lockdown, they don’t seem to have learnt anything over management of their clubs. Many of us had strongly felt that the hibernation period would have served as a perfect opportunity for leaders of our clubs to think it over the way they had been managing their clubs before the advent of the sports lockdown. Indeed, the period had provided them with plenty of opportunities in learning what their counterparts in Europe were doing, in the period under review. In fact, some of us had hinted to our local clubs leaders that in the post corona virus pandemic, management of professional soccer clubs may not be the same. We also hinted the possibility of players/clubs management contracts, as we know them today, being changed in order to take on board lessons learnt from the corona virus pandemic. For instance, for managements whose clubs are professional to the core like the European based clubs, the issue of reducing players’ salaries was something new. But that was not all. There was also a lot of resistance from players over such salary cuts or reduction from most of the clubs. Yet it was quite clear that professional soccer clubs’ income had been heavily affected by the sports lockdown and will continue to as long as the deadly disease continues to ravage the world. And nothing has perhaps afflicted the clubs, professional or no otherwise than the prospect of soccer clubs playing in empty stadia! At home, the Zanzibar Premier League is currently in limbo! According to their officials, they may not start soon due to lack of money which has affected most of their clubs. The Mainland Premier League re-started last week. But going by the enforced socialdistancing which has been spelt out by the ministry responsible, for, among other things, sports; it would equally be affected by low attendance by fans during soccer matches. When soccer fans are required to keep a distance of one metre from one another, our stadia are not going to be as packed as they used to before sports lockdown was put in place by the government as part of curbing the spread of the corona virus. Going by the foregoing narration, it is clear that a lot are clearly to change in the way professional soccer is run and all because the sports lockdown experienced by most countries in the world has brought forward a lot of lessons. The lessons learnt took the form of financial and clubs management. And it is in management where our clubs officials need and ought to have the three months hiatus in taxing their minds how best to run their clubs rather than continue to sing the same, old worn out songs of excuses whenever their clubs are thrashed on the pitch. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/ author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk