THE Court of Appeal has ordered Guinea citizen, Marceline Koivogui to remain behind bars for 20 years for trafficking in 1,073.82grammes of heroin hydrochloride, which are narcotic drugs, at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in 2012. Justices Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika and Winfrida Korosso reached into such a decision after dismissing the appeal Koivogui, the appellant, had lodged to fault findings of the High Court of Tanzania. “We are satisfied that the available credible oral account of (nine prosecution witnesses) together with the documentary account contained in (eight) exhibits, point to the guilt of the appellant to have been found trafficking in drugs on May 19, 2012,” they ruled. During hearing of the appeal, the appellant’s counsel had complained on, among others, the chain of custody of the drugs being broken due to failure to receipt and issue certificate of seizure to her and, documenting in order to make the paper trail on what transpired from the time she was arrested. Having carefully considered the arguments for and against the appeal and the evidence on record, the justices noted that the conviction of the appellant basically hinged on the credibility of airport and police officials, who were present when she was arrested. “These witnesses were present at the scene of crime when the appellant was apprehended at JNIA and taken to the airport police station. The trial judge relied on the prosecution account which he found to be credible as to the apprehension of the appellant and retrieval and seizure of the consignment,” they said. According to them, they could not fault the trial court in having relied on credible oral account of the prosecution witnesses which was not impeached considering documentation is not only requirement in dealing with an exhibits and it will not fail the test merely because there was no documentation. “From the cumulative account of the said witnesses, as correctly found by the trial court, we find no cogent reasons to disbelieve the credible account of the prosecution’s eye witnesses,” the justices said in their judgment delivered recently. Before penning down, the justices reviewed the sentence earlier imposed on the appellant by the High Court of serving 27 years imprisonment from the date she was arrested. They pointed out that since the appellant was at the time of arrest not yet convicted, she was presumed innocent. “She could not be subjected to serve any sentence. The time spent by (her) behind bars before being found guilty, convicted and sentenced, would have been a mitigating factor in imposing the sentence but not as erroneously ordered by the trial judge to commence from the time of her arrest. “We thus vary the erroneous sentence imposed by the trial judge, and as such the appellant shall serve a period of twenty (20) years from the date she was convicted; that is from 6th July, 2017,” they declared. On May 19, 2012 at the JNIA, the appellant who was travelling to Guinea, her home country, as is the usual practice, placed her bag on the scanning machine for security check. The scanner operator detected an unusual object which he could not identify. The operator called a colleague who also detected the unusual object with unusual colour. Having smelled a rat, the two airport officials inquired and the appellant claimed that the bag had her mother’s medicine. Then, in the presence of the appellant, her bag was opened, each item therein was scanned, and three brassieres were detected to contain the unusual objects. Suspecting the objects to be narcotic drugs, they alerted the police who happened to be in the vicinity of the departure lounge.