THE Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism Permanent Secretary (PS), Prof  Adolf Mkenda, has expressed satisfaction at the development of the earliest human footprints museum project in the Ngorongoro Conservation Areas Authority (NCAA) discovered over 3.6 million years back. However, he advised that they increase construction speed for the project to be finished before year end, adding that the area is historically unique for studies in the country and globe. “I do congratulate the Authority for the decision of constructing this museum. It will protect and preserve these footprints in modern ways. This Laetoli area of Ngorongoro is the only place in the world confirmed scientifically that the earliest human being stood and walked with two feet, millions of year back. “Let us exert much effort and I am satisfied with the way you currently preserve this area…make sure that the footprint does not get erased, until the modern preservation (museum) is in place,” he pointed out. The PS at the same time directed NCAA experts to collaborate with the Russian St. Petersburg and University of Dar es Salaam, Geologists and Archaeologists to organise a meeting and discuss among others scientific ways to protect such footprints. He said the meeting is possible since Tanzania has continued to adhere to all Covid-19 precautions and opening its air space, adding that experts, including those from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) can also attend. “We are able to protect Rhino, Elephant and other animals which are breeding and increasing, but if we lose these earliest human- footprints, we will never find them. We need to increase the construction speed of the museum, and if you face financial constraints, alert the government,” said Prof  Mkenda. On his part, NCAA Heritage and Culture Department Manager, Engineer Joshua Mwankunda said they have every scientific reason to continue preserving such human footprints. “That is why they are still currently covered by black stones to maintain their originality and to prevent fungus, erosion or dust from spoiling them,” he said.