THE Court of Appeal has ordered the Gold Mining Company, Geita Gold Mine (GGM) Limited, to pay about 3bn/- to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) as withholding tax for various transactions made to third parties. Justices Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika and Mary Levira ruled in favour of the Commissioner General with TRA after dismissing with costs the appeal the mining company, as appellants, had lodged to fault findings of the Tax Revenue Appeals Tribunal (Tribunal). “The appeal is not merited,” the justices ruled. “We uphold the decision of the Tribunal, order the appellant to pay the demanded withholding tax at the prescribed rate plus interest thereon. In the result, the appeal is dismissed with costs,” they declared. The justices noted that the obligation to pay tax is a creature of statute under section 6(1) (a) and (b) of the Income Tax Act whereby, in case of a reside person the criterion is the chargeable income for the year of income from employment, business or investment. According to the panel, a similar criterion is applicable to a non-resident person, but only to the extent that the income has a source in the United Republic of Tanzania. The justices noted further that it was not in dispute that, according to the Gold Mine Development Agreement (MDA Agreement), the appellant is entitled to enjoy the tax incentives stated therein. Also, they said, the appellant is as well obliged to withhold tax at the rate of three per cent from payment made to third parties who supplied technical services to the appellant as prescribed under the Income Tax Act of 1973. But the parties had locked horns on the applicable clauses of the MDA and propriety or otherwise of the applicability of the Income Tax Act of 2004 which had changed the rate of tax to be withheld from three to 15 per cent. In disposing of the grounds of appeal, therefore, the issue for the Court’s determination was whether or not the obligation to withhold income tax under clause 4.5 of the MDA is static regardless of the new rate of 15 per cent subsequent to change of the law. After having closely scrutinised the Agreement in question, the justices were of the views that it was common ground the appellant, who was privy to it was legally obliged to withhold taxes from the nonresident third parties who provided services to him. “In our jurisdiction which is the practice in the Commonwealth jurisdictions, the effect of repealing Legislation is that, unless the contrary intention appears the repeal does not revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the repeal takes effect,” they said. During hearing of the appeal, the counsel for the appellant company had stated, however, that clause 4.2 of the MDA bars the application of new rates of withholding tax which were intended to be static throughout the lifespan of the mine. In their judgment, the justices ruled that it is crystal clear that the tax and duties referred to in the clause are those imposed on companies including the appellant whereas under clause 4.5.2 he was obliged to withhold tax from payment made to third parties and remit the same to the respondent. “Therefore, the change in the rate of withholding through amendment or repeal of the law, does not in any way affect the appellant who collects such tax on behalf of the respondent. Thus, the appellant’s complaint that the rate of 3 per cent was intended to be static is unfounded,” they said. The appellant is a Gold Mining Company dealing in the mining industry in Geita region. On June 24, 1999 the appellant through its shareholders entered into the MDA with the government of the United Republic of Tanzania pursuant to which he was entitled to enjoy tax incentives stipulated therein. Between 2009 and 2011, the appellant claimed to have engaged various non-resident persons to perform technical services in connection with its mining activities and as consideration, the appellant paid fees for such services which were provided by affiliate companies. Such companies are Anglo- Gold Ltd, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, AngloGold Australia and AngloGold. Moreover, during the period in question, the appellant paid insurance premiums to cover personal injury or incapacitation. In addition, the appellant made payments for various goods and services supplied to it by persons who did not have Tax Identification Number registration. In 2013 the respondent conducted a tax audit on the appellant’s business affairs covering years of income 2009 to 2011. The audit had the objective of ascertaining the appellant’s compliance in payment of various taxes. As a result, on July 29, 2013 the audit findings communicated to the appellant were to the effect that, it was required to remit the withholding tax at the rate of 15 per cent from payments made to third parties. On December 31, 2013 the appellant vide a letter of finalisation of the Tax Audit issued to the respondent a withholding tax certificate demanding 1,819,002,183/- as principal sum and 1,123,875,027/- as interest, making a total of 2,942,877,210/-.