THE Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) will open the transfer window immediately after the end of the season, to avoid affecting the 2020/21 top flight season. According to TPLB, the current league season will end on July 26th this year and thereafter, the transfer window will be opened for clubs to reinforce their respective squads. “We have seen the picture that next season, many competitions will be held including those governed by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) as such, it will be wise to open the transfer window early,” said the board’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO),  Almas Kasongo. Concerning the fixtures, Kasongo said the TPLB is doing everything necessary to ensure that they come up with friendly fixture for all teams in the league. “I can confidently say that the current league fixture is so far the best because we have observed enough space between matches unlike the previous fixture whereby teams were engaged in matches after 72 hours. “I strongly believe that complaints on fixture congestion will be an issue of the past as a result of improvements we have made,” he said. Normal flow of the Mainland Premier League games are expected to begin this weekend, whereby all 20 teams will be in action in different venues across the country. Defending champions Simba will be seeking their first win after league resumption hosting Mwadui FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday, while a day later; Azam FC will entertain Young Africans at the same venue in a pick of the week encounter. However, Kasongo conceded that most teams in the top flight league, First Division League (FDL), and Second Division League (SDL), are facing economic hardships, following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the FDL is expected to kick of tomorrow with one game on the card as African Lyon host Boma FC at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, while on Saturday, Majimaji FC will face Njombe Mji FC in Ruvuma. On Sunday, four games will be played whereby Pan African will face Ihefu FC at Uhuru Stadium, Mlale FC take on Dodoma FC in Ruvuma; Iringa United welcomes Friends Rangers in Iringa and Mbeya Kwanza will host Cosmopolitan FC in Mbeya.