SIMBA ’S six-point mission hit fifty per cent of target on Wednesday after clearing Mbeya City hurdle with a clean 2-0 win in a thrilling encounter at Sokoine stadium in Mbeya. The six-point mission will knock its 100 per cent target if the Dar es Salaam giants beat Tanzania Prisons in their mission’s final hurdle on June 28th at the same venue. By winning yesterday’s match Simba now need only a point to defend their league title for the third time in a row. Do Simba clear Tanzania Prisons hurdle, they will be champions and grab again league diadem this season, especially after their closest challengers, Azam lost 1-0 to Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba yesterday. Wednesday’s tense match  saw Simba opening their goal account early in the 5th minute through John Bocco, who completed Clatous Chama’s  timely move from the left flank. Said Ndemla, who played well on Wednesday, initiated the move as a counter attack after Mbeya City had raided Simba goal. The score remained unanswered until the end of the first half. The second half saw Simba coming back a rejuvenated side as it didn’t take them long to add their second goal through Bocco again. The second goal came barely 10 minutes after the resumption and this time it was Francis Kahata who did a good spadework before releasing a volley that Bocco smartly chopped it above the advancing Mbeya City goalie Aaron Kalambo. Soon after the goal, Simba brought in Luis Miquissone for Francis Kahata in their bid to search for more goals. Before   Muzamir  Yassin   came   for  Ndemla  while  the  hosts  brought  in  Said  Kipanga   and   Kelvin  John  for  Chidiebere   and    George  Chota respectively. And  in the  dying  minutes  of  the  game  referee  Athumani  Lazi  denied  Simba  the  third goal  netted by Miraji  Athumani  for  a  foul play. The  results  put   Mbeya  City  in the deep relegation zone  as  they  are placed   18th   with  30 points  from 31 games  and  are left   with  seven  games  in  their  campaign  to avoid relegation. Simba  are  currently riding the pack with 78 points   from  31 games   and  if  they  manage  to clinch  one point  in  their two  coming  games  they will be  declared  champions  as their  two close competitors  Azam FC  and  Young  Africans  can hardly bag 79 points at the end of the season. As in another fixture held at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba, Azam faced a big hurdle from the hosts Kagera Sugar. The hosts, who played with determination, were first to score in the 34th minute of the first half through Yusuf Mhilu, who is at the moment the team’s leading scorer. Whereas   at Karume Stadium in Musoma  Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) who faced Biashara United  were  no  match   to  their  hosts  after  being hammered 4-0. The hosts opened their goal account in the 36th  minute through Justine Omary, Before   Atupele Green netting a hat-trick. Green doubled  his side  lead in  the 68th  minute  before  adding  the third  in the 72nd  minute. Whereby  the  fourth  goal and  his  third   of  the  match  was  netted in the 90th  minute. In  another  encounter  held at  the Nyamagana  Stadium  in Mwanza  hosts  Alliance  FC  were  held to a  1-1  draw  by  visitors  Polisi Tanzania. Alliance  took  the  match lead  in the  51st minute through  Martine Kiggi, but  the  visitors   levelled  the  matter  through  Pius  Buswita in  the  80th  minute. The  result saw  Alliance  fail  to  go out  of  the  relegation  zone  thus increasing their  fear  of  being  demoted  to  the  First  Division League  next  season.