MUHIMBILI National Hospital -Mloganzila has introduced new treatment technology for patients with kidney stones which uses shock waves to break the renal stones into tiny pieces which are then eliminated through the urinary system. Before the commencement of the service, patients with the problem had to undergo major surgery to remove the stones, but now they can be treated without undergoing any medical operation and recover within a short time. MNH Executive Director Prof Lawrence Museru said on Thursday at Mloganzila Hospital on the outskirts of Dar es salaam that, the new treatment does not require a patient to be admitted at the hospital. One can receive treatment and be allowed to return home on the same day, he explained. He said the commencement of the new service gives new hope to needy patients because the procedure uses not more than one hour and patients can recover within a short time (one week) contrary to the previous procedure takes up to three months for full recovery. “The introduction of this service is the continuation of the implementation of the fifth phase government’s efforts to ensure availability of specialized services in the country,” Prof Museru said. He said the treatment is done by using an electromagnetic machine - Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) which transmits shock waves from the machine through the skin to the kidney and break the renal stones into small pieces which will be eliminated through urinary system. Prof Museru said that the national hospital started to provide the new treatment early this month, adding that so far, eight patients have benefited from the service while two more patients were scheduled to undergo the procedure (yesterday) which will make a total of ten patients. He, however, said that the service was very important to the country because many people with the problem will have access to the treatment. Prof Museru further explained that last year, a total of 1,035 patients with kidney stones were attended at Out Patient Department (OPD) clinics at MNH Upanga and Mloganzila, 425 of whom were new patients. He added that 114 patients were admitted and 50 patients with an average of four patients per month underwent surgeries to remove the stones. Prof Museru further said that between 2010 and 2017, a total of 23 patients with kidney stones were referred abroad for treatment. He, however, said that plans were underway to introduce more specialized services at the national hospital such as hip replacement surgery which is expected to commence in the near future. Prof Museru added that the national facility also plans to build a Centre of Excellence for Organ Transplant which will offer services such as bone marrow transplant, Kidney transplant, corneal transplant, In Vitro fertilization – IVF, liver transplant and skills lab. For his part, a urologist at MNH, Dr Hamis Isaka, said that kidney stones are caused by a number of factors, mostly high concentration of chemicals in the urinary system such as calcium oxalate , citric acid which may lead to the formation of renal stones. He said the disease can also develop if a patient is not drinking enough water … “A person is required to drink at least 2.5 litres of water per day; if not, he increases the chance of high concentration of chemicals in urinary system. The risk of developing renal stones also increases in patients with urinary problems such as those with enlarged prostate." MNH- Mloganzila Deputy Executive Director Dr Julieth Magandi said that the cost for the procedure is 500,000/- for public patients , 1.2m/- for private and 4.8 m/- for foreigners. She said that if the ten patients who received treatment at the national facility were referred abroad they could pay 10m/- each, thus the new treatment has helped the government to save 95m/- for the ten patients.