SOME members of the Parliamentary Budget Committee have urged the Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA), to come up with a model that will require insurers to support businesses that have suffered the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. However, technically there is no law that forces insurers to cover such claims and it has not been immediately established whether the State could propose new legislation to incorporate the new developments. But the lawmakers said that a number of business firms had been forced to shut down due to coronavirus and some countries decided to lockdown as part of initiatives to contain the pandemic. “Businesses are struggling,” said Mbaraka Dau (Mafia— CCM). “These entrepreneurs received loans from financial institutions and ordered goods from abroad, but have not been able to receive their products on time to service their loans,” he said. However, so far there are no official records on businesses that have suffered to deserve the support from insurers. The MPs believe TIRA is responsible for supporting businesses affected by such crises and disasters. Chairman of the Committee, Mashimba Ndaki said part of the broader priorities of TIRA should be to groom the industry players to be able to support the industrial economy. He said: “A lot more regulatory authorities have been pushing to control the sector instead of coming up with strategies for expanding the sector.” He pointed out that if there were legal gaps, the authority must recommend proposals that could respond to the new de mands. Special Seats MP, Riziki Lulida (CUF) had earlier complained that businesses had been greatly affected during the pandemic, remarking: “Insurers seem to be ignoring their longterm clients.” She said while the companies had insured their goods, it would be proper for them to be considerate by helping to cover losses arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. The TIRA Insurance Markets Development Manager, Mr Salum Yungwa, said the insurance coverage were quite specific and clear for both individuals and firms applying to secure their goods, services and products. He said strategically, the government enacted and made amendments in the laws governing the insurance sector to, among other things, protect consumers. He explained, for instance, that all cargo imported into the country was now insured by local firms for the specific reason of protecting local firms and the country’s economy. TIRA’s Commissioner for Insurance, Dr Mussa Juma, said businesses industries and other sectors need insurance for their survival. He told the committees that the sector was very crucial in supporting the country’s industrialisation drive and that the regulator was working to create a conducive playing field for all players.