WITH the threat of coronavirus rapidly diminishing, Tanzania has revealed that the popular international trade exhibitions, the Dar es Salaam Trade Fair will take place as usual from July  1 to 13, this year. Tanzania has continued to record successes in the war against Covid-19 and as a sign of defeating the pandemic, businesses should brace for the annual exhibitions that attract tens of hundreds locals and foreigners. To a larger extent business activities in the country have remained uninterrupted despite the Coronavirus outbreak thanks to the government’s strategic response to the contagion. A statement by the Minister for Industries and Trade, Mr Innocent Bashungwa yesterday hinted that nothing will disrupt the exhibitions staged annually in early July at Mwalimu J.K Nyerere Trade Fair Ground. However, unlike previous years, this time the 44th DITF would strictly observe anti-Coronavirus measures in order to avoid the spread of the respiratory disease, said the minister, insisting that participants will have to adhere to all precautions and preventive measures as proposed by health experts. “Coordination for this trade fair takes into account health procedures in ensuring that the grounds are safe for exhibitors and visitors. We are taking all measures to ensure people are protected from infections,” he stated. He said all face-to-face business meetings (b2B) will this time take place through online platforms, such as video conferencing. “The aim of these meetings is to improve availability of sustainable markets for products and services. In facilitating people to visit the fair, electronic tickets will be available for visitors through their mobile phones,” said Mr Bashungwa. According to the minister, visitors from within and outside the country will be granted an opportunity to visit the trade fair through online live-streaming and virtual exhibition. “There would be a special pavilion for displaying agricultural products, including those strategic crops,” he noted. The minister said his office in collaboration with the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade) have already started preparations for popular exhibitions. The theme for this year’s fair is: ‘Industrial Economy for Employment and Sustainable Trade’, focusing on recognising the contribution of the agricultural sector and industries in creating jobs and building sustainable trade. The ministry called upon the traders, industrialists, farmers, public and private sectors to participate in the fair in order to expand the market for their agricultural and industrial products. DITF is one of the Recognised and Approved Trade Fair by the Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI), which is giving the DITF the high status to be considered as the best event in the Eastern and Central African regions. Last year, the number of countries that participated in the trade fair increased from 33 to 35 while participating local companies increased from 2,956 of 2018 to 3,250.  