THE Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Mr Selemani Jafo has expressed his dismay over poor delivery and gross indiscipline by Sumbawanga District Commissioner in Rukwa Region, Dr Halfany Haule. Mr Jafo also slammed Sumbawanga District Executive Director (DED), Mr Nyangi Msemakweli for failure to supervise revenues collected by village and ward officers, who in turn swindled the money. Mr Jafo further explained that despite commendable efforts by Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo yet things were not going well due to the poor delivery and lack of commitment by the Sumbawanga DC and his DED. “These two leaders (Dr Haule and DED Nyangi) have shown lack of commitment when executing their duties.....DC (Dr Haule) was given a 14-day leave but he spent one month and half outside his working station without any convincing explanation,” the minister said. According to Mr Jafo, the DC started his 14 days leave on March 23 this year but he returned to his office in May, this year. “Even when he was asked to explain in writing as to why he extended his leave....DC remained defiant until today. I will officially inform the President (John Magufuli) that in Sumbawanga District there some incompetent leaders who are frustrating the speed of the fifth-phase administration” he insisted. The minister directed the Sumbawanga District Council Executive Director, Mr Nyangi to explain in writing as to why he was in charge of the council which is leading in the region for many defaulters who have never been taken to task. Equally Mr Jafo directed the Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo to assign the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to investigate the matter, including DED Mr Nyangi. Earlier the RC Wangabo briefed the minister that domestic revenue collectors in four councils in the region collected 7,751,681,210.79/-equivalent to 85 percent of the targeted collection of 9,154,602,200/. “Besides there is a big problem of dishonest revenue collectors who allegedly are swindling the collection instead of depositing in banks. Until the end of May this year, collectors failed to deposit 712,271,799.75/-,” stated Mr Jafo. He further explained that councillors from all four councils owe DEDs 125,678,577- being their arrears.