AS President John Magufuli winds up his first five-year term, his leadership will go down in history as the administration that changed the country’s health sector profile. Since he assumed the country’s highest leadership position, he vowed to improve health service delivery, targeting ordinary citizens. The President has kept his promise, which was articulated in the 2015-2020 election manifesto of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), the ruling party that fronted his candidature. Records show that a total of 1,769 health service delivery points have been constructed in the country from 2015 to date. Highlighting his achievements in the health sector recently when dissolving the 11th Parliament in Dodoma last week, President Mafuguli explained that of the 1,769 facilities that had been built, 1,198 are dispensaries, 487 health centres, 71 district hospitals, 10 regional and three referral hospitals. Some flagship projects include an ongoing construction of Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial Hospital in Mara Region, a health facility project whose implementation had stalled since the 1970s. “These efforts led to an increase in health service delivery points from 7,014 in 2015 to 8,783,” President Magufuli said. As a person who makes the impossible possible, President Magufuli did, during his first term, launch the construction of 67 district hospitals, a historic performance since independence. The projects are aimed at delivering quality healthcare closer to the people so that they don’t have to travel long distances to access the services in distant facilities. During the nearly five-year tenure, the government has also employed 14,479 new health service providers, including the recently recruited 1,000 doctors. The move led to an increase of service providers from 86,152 in 2015 to100, 631, this year. According to the Head of State, the government has also expanded the medical supplies (medicines, equipment, medical equipment and reagents) by increasing their budget from 31bn/- in 2015 to the current 270bn/-. Some 117 ambulances have been purchased so far and distributed to various areas of the country, and a total of 301 specialist doctors have been trained, who in turn, have facilitated the availability of advanced medical treatment, especially in areas of cardiovascular, ears, kidney, brain, and cancers, among others. The president was quoted further as saying that the number of mothers who deliver at health facilities has increased from 64 per cent in 2015 to 83 per cent currently. Deaths of infants aged less than 28 days (below a month) have dropped to an average of seven from 25 (average) in 2015, in every 1,000 live births. The improvement in health service delivery has seen the government reducing the burden it has been shouldering to finance treatment of patients abroad as the number of patients seeking referrals outside the country has decreased by 95 per cent. The drop in number of patients seeking referrals abroad enables the government to save approximately 20bn/-. As a result of improvements in advanced medical treatment, some patients from neighbouring countries have started to visit Tanzania in search of specialised medical care in areas of heart complications- related services. “This proves that we have done a great job in improving and strengthening the health sector in the country. You, honourable Members of Parliament are witnesses,” the President told the legislators. A few days before President Magufuli dissolved Parliament, Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, told the nation that the government improved access to essential medicines in health facilities to 94.4 per cent in 2019/20 from 36 per cent in 2014/15. Though Tanzanians are gearing up for general elections later this year, the government says it will place much emphasis on health service delivery improvement. Activities to be implemented include procurement and distribution of medicine, equipment, medical equipment and reagents, construction of regional and zonal referral hospitals, district hospitals, health centres and dispensaries, improving access to health services through universal health coverage, and employing various health professionals. It should be noted that apart from Mwalimu Nyerere Memoriral Hospital that is under construction, the government is constructing a referral hospital in Chato District in Geita Region. With the Lake Zone population estimated at 15 million, the need for a referral health facility becomes inevitable. The government is building a referral hospital in Mtwara that will serve the Southern Zone residents in Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma regions.