AS the world rethink on its post Covid-19 recovery strategies, our domestic players in the food supply system may not just sit out and be left out of the calculus by assuming a complacency mode. In the past two months, an entire world was crying from the mighty scourge of the highly contagious disease, many businesses were closing, large number of people lost jobs as retrenchment was the order of the day. It was rather shocking to hear that during the same period Mr. Jeff Bezos, the richest man on earth, is on a pathway to becoming the first trillionaire, thanks to the profits he accrued during the pandemic. The reason behind his unusual evolution was that, Amazon – an American multinational e – Commerce Company, largely owned by Mr. Bezos – got so many orders from online customers who before the pandemic were used to shopping through retail stores closer to their localities. This rather marked a beginning of new business model in the world to come. Important note is that Tanzania never took the lockdown approach that many countries in the world assumed. It was neither full nor partial as the entire economy and many of the social activities were left to operate freely. An impact of this is that no significant changes may be expected from this whirlwind that ravaged the whole earth. Nonetheless, it shouldn’t be forgotten that there were steps taken by private entities which required their workers to stay – at – home. These steps decimated a number of people who could attend to a restaurants or food chains for breakfast or lunch meals. Retrospectively, business turnovers were inadvertently reduced leading to many business closures. It took simple observation to notice a drastic decline in the number of people commuting business centres. This signified a reduced consumption. So it was a no brainer that even the public transport vehicles stopped doing their usual routes due to the fallen profitability. These few instances are enough to explain that the food business was hardly hit in the urban cities. Since it has been agreed to the World Health Organization (WHO) that this disease is here to stay, methinks business practices must also respond accordingly. One of the innovative ways that may help food businesses adapt and thrive in the current situation is creating some new supply models that avoid congestion. Not only that the step will play significant part in controlling spread of the virus, it will help reaching out to consumers that are already used to the ‘new consumption normal’. That’s just one small part of the story. The bigger one which takes the form of behavioural change is that the outer world has just began this journey and due to the interconnectivity of the world, our culture may be forced to follow the same shape, this makes the first one to innovate stands to benefit big time in the future. Challenge with global business culture is that if one resist to changes will find oneself in a situation that will require him to either get out of the business or adapt accordingly. The story of Nokia Company and its reluctance to ditch analogue phone for smartphones is more telling, as it had to both get off the business for quite some years and got back with strategy that used the same disregarded smartphones. So the rejected stone by the builders became the chief cornerstone. Essentially, businesses have to develop some door to door delivery services to the ‘locked-in’ customers. Food manufacturers too, needs to learn some technologies on how to process some products like pre – cooked beans, which are ready for consumption. Similar inventions may go to other produce like yellow and green grams. The bottom line is, we can never live a life without businesses, but there is a lingering question, will the current businesspeople thrive in a new era? It may be much easier to resist global pressures to have our country take the lockdown approach – which we have every reason to take pride for it – but to isolate ourselves from global effects borne by it may be hard nut to crack.