AS Tanzanians joined their colleagues in the world to observe the World Clubfoot Day yesterday, parents with children who are born with the deformity have been urged to take them to hospital for treatment. Clubfoot is a congenital deformity that is a leading cause of locomotion disability, with a prevalence of 1 out of 750 live births annually. Approximately1, 813,000 children are born with a disability worldwide, 80 percent of these are in developing countries, whereas 40,000 cases are found in Sub-Saharan Africa. Comprehensive Community-Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania (CCBRT), and Clubfoot Program Coordinator, Dr Zainab Illonga said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the deformity was completely correctable and lifetime change was possible. “We remind parents that this deformity has nothing to do with witchcraft or black magic. Parents should bring children to get treatment as soon as possible, for those with patients below 5 years can bring them to CCBRT to receive free treatment,” said Dr Illonga. She added, “With timely intervention at birth with sequential plasters, the child ends up having a normal foot without any functional limitations. The key here is early casting, starting five to seven days after birth. It is successful in 95-98 percent of kids and does not require any extensive surgical correction. The condition does not resolve without treatment and will only worsen with progressing age if left untreated. In most cases, the parents need not be alarmed if their baby is detected with clubfeet at or before birth,” According to Dr Illonga, at CCBRT they approximately see about 400 new cases a year, insisting on parents not to shy away and take their children to hospital for treatment. On causes of the deformity, she said there was no definitive known source of clubfoot, however a combination of things may lead to clubfoot, saying it is partly genetic, which means it tends to run in families, according to some studies as well as environmental factors. Globally, June 3rd is observed as World Clubfoot Day, believed to have been designated by the Ponseti International Association (PIA), in commemoration of the birthday of Dr Ignacio Ponseti (1914-2009), the developer of the Ponseti Method for treating clubfoot. And while it is celebrated, there is still little awareness about what clubfoot disability is, and how it affects children around the world. Expounding further on the matter, she said clubfoot is a congenital deformity in which an infant’s foot is twisted out of shape inward, upward, saying that the most common deformity of the bones and joints in new-borns that can be mild or severe which occur in one or both feet. Dr Illonga called on researchers and scientists to conduct more research on clubfoot in Tanzania to get a better understanding of the demographics. “We also encourage more donations from various organisations, cooperates and citizens to ensure that these children always have access to free clubfoot treatment,” she remarked