ON Wednesday, June 10, 2020; Dr. Philip Mpango – Minister for Finance and Planning – delivered a budget speech for 2020/2021 financial year. As the custom put in place by the member states, the speech was synchronized with other East African countries. A budget that one could label as responsive and pro – business nailed on issues that were alarmed by stakeholders and experts for long time as to be standing between agribusiness dormancy and vibrancy. There are no words to explain decision to abolish 60 fees and levies which were charged by Ministries, Departments, Agencies and Regulatory Authorities, than bold and futuristic. Although the Minister rightfully reasoned this move as taking into “consideration…. the impact of Covid – 19’’, it is also the truth of the matter that those were among pertinent issues raised by stakeholders before being reflected in the Blueprint – a hallmark testament that Public Private Partnership can help bringing business sector even higher. Again the budget reaffirmed its last year’s decision to annul VAT on exports of raw agricultural products.  Much as it went unnoticeably, this step stands to be a cornerstone behind remarkable progress in exportation of pulses, from 72.1 million dollars in 2018 to 147.1 million dollars in 2019. Horticulture products exports too didn’t fall from grace, as they advanced from 412 million dollar in 2015 to 779 dollar in 2019. Low taxation usually makes products cheaper and competitive in the global markets and the opposite is always true. And then crop insurance scene came into play. Arguably no one saw this coming, but Minister for Finance declared that with all boldness that from July 1, 2020, VAT that used to be charged on insurance fee paid by farmers through insurance companies will no longer be valid. Crop insurance premiums are normally paid based on acreage and crop type. One acre of maize farm is charged 20,000 shillings per year whereas rice farm pays 25,000 shillings. An idea behind this insurance cover is more or less similar to other products like health, life and property insurance, the only difference from other products is that it dives into a risky venture – agriculture. It basically indemnifies a beneficiary if faced with perils like floods, droughts, hailstorms, barn fire and uncontrollable pests. However, it should be made clear that crop insurance is not a panacea to all the risks and uncertainties that are involved in agribusiness, it rather tries to address the unpredictable natural calamities. Nonetheless, in the country which in 2018, had more than 38 per cent of adults reported hunger due to drought, this VAT abolishment couldn’t be more befitting. The trickle – down effect of this momentous decree can never be understated. Insurance companies which are the ones paying this form of taxation, will start feeling less burden in meeting their operational obligations and so widening their profit margin. Since we have liberalized our financial sector, giving way for many insurance companies to operate, an ideal of competition among companies will tilt many of them towards lowering their premiums to attract more subscribers. At this point though, this declaration should remain to be regarded as a ‘wish’ expressed in numerical terms as companies can collude to keep the same price for pure profit maximization purposes. Fair Competition Commission (FCC) – a public entity established to protect consumers from unfair and misleading market conduct – needs to be more vigilant than any time before, so that small holder farmers, who forms the larger component of consumers are not taken advantage of. If this will be managed well, then Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA)’s aim of increasing accessibility of Tanzanians to more than one product, to 50 per cent by 2028 from the current 15 per cent will be met without further ado. When all is said and done – mindful of the fact that the country will be getting into general election soon – Mr. Mpango, a well decorated economist, can go to sleep with ease knowing that at least he has served his position so well.