THE Parliamentary Standing Committee on Budget has proposed extension of Electronic Tax Stamps (ETS) on edible oil, sugar, farm inputs in addition to human and veterinary medicine and cosmetics to check cheating of taxes and counterfeit products. That would boost up revenues, the committee said. The Chairman of the committee, Mr Mashimba Ndaki (Maswa West-CCM) made the recommendation in the National Assembly when presenting views of the committee on budget estimates for fiscal year 2020/2021 tabled by Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, last week. At present, the digital stamps are only applied on products which are subjected to excise duty such as cigarettes, beers, bottled water, spirits and wines. The first phase of the system was introduced by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in January 2019 through a Swiss company Société Industrielle et Commerciale de Produits Alimentaires (SICPA) which provides both software and hardware for the technology. “Application of the digital stamps for the excisable goods has enabled TRA to track actual production at factories and imports and eventually facilitated collection of requisite taxes and curb fake products in the market. “My committee hence proposes the same system for other products to protect consumers from harmful products and also boost government revenues,” Mr Ndaki suggested. The parliamentarian reasoned further that the ETS management system will play a crucial role in detecting smuggled products to protect local manufacturers against unfair competition. “Our country faces a challenge of substandard and smuggled products which do not only deny the government of taxes but poses health risks to consumers, farmers and also creating unfair playing grounds for local producers,” he explained. Data by TRA have shown that since the first phase ETS management system was introduced for excisable products in January, last year, there has been considerable increase in collection of excise duty and Value Added Tax (VAT) compared to the same period in the previous years. According to the figures by the taxman, collection of excise duties on spirits rose to 13.8bn/-, translating to an increase of 74.4 per cent, during the first quarter of 2020 as compared to revenue collected during the same quarter in 2019. Tabling the budget estimates last week, Dr Mpango said the government has undertaken various measures to increase tax collection and proper management of public funds through various electronic systems such as Electronic Fiscal Devise Management System (EFDMS). The former senior World Bank economist cited other measures as Government e-Payment Gateway System (GePGs) and Tanzania Customs Integrated System (TANCIS), among others. The 34.88trl/- budget for 2020/2021 presented by Dr Mpango shows that the government plans to spend 22.10trl/- for recurrent expenditure and 12.78trl/- for development projects.