MINISTER for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango has presented a roadmap to lift the country’s economy that targets to create more jobs, sustain industrial growth amidst the impact of coronavirus pandemic and natural disasters. In his address to the National Assembly, while presenting the 34.8tri/- national budget for the fiscal year 2020/21, the minister said the government would continue financing strategic projects, including the construction of the central railway line to standard gauge level, the 2,115MW Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project as well as facilitating the constriction of the Hoima-Tanga East African crude oil pipeline. Dr Mpango said 2019/20 was ending with unexpected circumstances resulting from the destruction of transport infrastructure caused by heavy rain as well as the Covid-19 pandemic. “The government will allocate more resources to the health sector to fight against the Covid-19 and support other most affected sectors,” he said. Initially, he said to ensure an industrial-based economy, the government would prioritise projects that utilised locally produced raw materials in agriculture, mining and natural gas to promote value chains. He said some of the earmarked projects included the construction of a natural gas processing factory, establish and develop special economic zones and industrial clusters. The target is to also increase processing industries in agriculture, livestock and fisheries, mineral beneficiation as well as strengthen mining markets and sustainable management of forest resources. Since President Magufuli assumed power in 2015, about 8,477 new industries have been established creating 482,601 employment opportunities. Dr Mpango emphasised that the government would intensify the use of ICT in agricultural services such as markets, farm inputs and extension as well as strengthening farmers’ cooperative unions. Other areas of interests include enhancing accessibility of services in health, education and skills, safe and clean water and sanitation. While the plan is to improve a teaching and learning environment in primary through tertiary, the government vowed to increase procurement and distribution of medicine, equipment, medical equipment and reagents. He announced more funds to the rural water fund to be able to construct and rehabilitate water distribution infrastructure and improve the quality of water laboratory services. A total of 2.03trn/- is expected to be spent by the government to improve the livelihood of poor households during the second term of the third phase of a productive social safety net programme—Tasaf. The scheme will cover all 185 local authorities in Mainland Tanzania and all 11 district councils of Zanzibar. Nonetheless, the finance minister said the government would continue implementing an action plan for blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve the business environment. He said the plan was to continue reducing tax and charges to attract more investments. In the last four national budgets from 2016/17 to 2019/20 implemented by the government under President Magufuli laid the foundation in creating resilient economic environment necessary in lifting up people from poverty, ignorance and diseases. The government has been putting emphasis on increasing efficiency and productivity in all sectors, building economic infrastructure, addressing woes faced by farmers, pastoralists, fishermen, businesspeople and investors as well as improving social services. The enabling economic environment created during the reference period has made the country register strong economic growth average of 6.9 per cent annually bolstered by outstanding performance in industrial, agriculture, construction and health sectors. Building the strong industrial base to foster the country’s move into the middle income status was the main agenda of the fifth phase government and one of the success stories in stimulating employment and contributing to economic growth. During the period under review, 8,477 new industries were established and created 482,601 jobs. For example, the industrial production in the cement sector rose to 9.1 million tonnes last year compared to 4.7 million tonnes in 2015. Throughout the period, the government has been seeking the integration of the industrial sector with the agricultural sector that provides employment to over 70 per cent of the country’s workforce particularly those living in rural areas. During the period under review, more emphasis was also put on strengthening productivity in agriculture and reliable markets for farmers’ crops, livestock, fisheries and forestry products.