STANDARD Chartered Bank’s CEO, Sanjay Rughani, has been appointed as the Chair of the Professional Accountants in Business Committee, PAIBC, for the International Federation of Accountants, IFAC. Mr Rughani, who becomes the first Tanzanian and leader from the continent to be appointed to the helm of the PAIBC, will hold the post for an initial term of three-years. The IFAC’s CEO, Kevin Dancey, thanked Mr Rughani for having agreed to lead the PAIBC which is a very critical forum to drive the profession forward. “Sanjay is a globally-respected leader, and an asset to the global accountancy profession. In his role as Committee Chair, he will lead discussions on the role of accounting and finance professionals in today’s rapidly evolving world. With his leadership, the PAIBC will continue to provide guidance, best practices, and new thinking to help accountants navigate challenges and identify emerging opportunities in their diverse roles within organizations,” Mr Dancey said. CPA Pius A. Maneno, the Executive Director of the National Board of Accountants and Auditors Tanzania (NBAA), congratulated CPA Rughani on the appointment citing it as a great mark of respect not only for Tanzania but for the whole Africa Region. “CPA Rughani is the first Tanzanian to have been nominated to lead the PAIBC from the time that it was introduced in 1977. This is a great mark of respect for him, and the country, and I congratulate CPA Rughani, who is also a member of NBAA, on his appointment. I have personally worked closely with him and I admire his passion for the profession.” He has always championed the cause of elevating accountants to become better business and financial leaders, strategic partners and advisors to create sustainable value. On his part Mr Rughani thanked the CEO of IFAC, Mr Dancey, and the rest of IFAC’s Leadership Team including members of the committee for having entrusted him to steer the Advisory Group. “I thank the IFAC Leadership for having appointed me to be the Chair of the PAIBC. I am indeed grateful for the opportunity to play a role to lead the committee which makes significant contributions to sustain and elevate one of the world’s truly honourable profession.” According to StanChart statement, IFAC is the global organization for the accountancy profession dedicated to serving the public interest by strengthening the profession and contributing to the development of strong international economies. It comprises of more than 175 members and associates in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions, representing more than 3 million accountants in public practice, education, government service, industry, and commerce. Having been nominated to the Committee in 2015 through the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, ACCA, Mr Rughani’s contribution to the Committee has been significant ranging from challenging the status quo of the Accounting profession and creating awareness on the future of Accounting. Mr Rughani also mentors and coaches a number of young accountants and encourages the ‘Girl Child’ to study Accounting.