DEPUTY Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Damas Ndumbaro is set to lead golfers, who will tee off at the special farewell fiddle tournament tomorrow. The event that is scheduled to tee off from 10:00 am at the Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) course is organised as a farewell bid for the Michael Danford, a World Food Programme (WFP) Representative to Tanzania whose term in the country has ended. Organised by Diplomatic Golf Competition Committee, the 18 holes tournament is open for diplomats and other golfers. One of the tournaments Coordinator from Mwandi Tanzania, Reinfrida Rwezaura told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparation for the Sunday’s event is on top gear. “We are well prepared to host the farewell event, everything is going well and will start at 10:00am. We are also glad that several players have already confirmed their participation. “We are happy that Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Damas Ndumbaro has already confirmed his participation and will lead other golfers to bid farewell to the WFP Representative,” she said. Rwezaura named other golfers, who have already confirmed their participation as Rishad Karimjee, Kalaf Rashid, Neil Abbot, Peter Gathercole, Jack Langworthy, Maryanne Mugo and Nathan Mpangala. Organisers said that doors are still open for other diplomats, Chief Executives Officers (CEO’s) and golfers to join and make the event a success. She said that they felt it was wise to organise such an event in honour of Danford, as they are going to miss him at the coming Diplomatic Golf Competition that is scheduled for November this year at Kili Golf course in Arusha. The second edition of the prestigious tournament that is open for diplomats, CEO’s and other men and ladies categories could not be hosted on May 30th this year as scheduled, due to the coronavirus pandemic. Danford was quoted as saying: “Diplomatic golf competition is an opportunity to come together, compete in golf course, enjoy each one company and get to know each other and improve good diplomatic relations.”