CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi’s (CCM) Kisiwandui main office received its 30th Zanzibar presidential aspirant yesterday, further intensifying the race for the country’s top office. Mr Mussa Aboud Jumbe, son of Isles second-phase President Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi, was the only CCM member who collected the nomination papers yesterday. The presidential hopeful reserved his comment, saying it wasn’t the appropriate time to talk yet. The latest entrant brings to three the number of former presidents’ children seeking to try the shoes of their fathers. Already, Zanzibar Founding President Amani Abeid Karume and his third-phase counterpart Ali Hassan Mwinyi’s sons, Ambassador Ali Abeid Karume and Dr Hussein Mwinyi have collected the nomination forms for the Isles presidency. The Zanzibar presidency has attracted aspirants from almost all walks of life, with seasoned politicians, teachers, journalists and peasants competing for the party nomination as its flag bearer in the coming general elections in October. Some contestants have already returned the forms after traversing three regions in both Unguja and Pemba seeking at least 250 party sponsors. Ambassador Karume was the first to return the papers last week and as of yesterday afternoon, Union Water Minister Professor Makame Mbarawa had returned his, bringing to 14 the number of candidates who have so far completed the initial procedures. The ruling party has opened doors for aspiring presidential candidates to pick the nomination forms for Zanzibar and Union presidencies. CCM Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar) Dr Abdallah Juma Abdallah, speaking to reporters here on June 13, 2020, invited all “courageous” party members to collect the nomination papers but warned corruption tainted individuals not to aspire. He said the party’s offices will remain open for 16 days to allow aspirants to collect the forms and seek 250 sponsors from at least three regions, with at least one region in Unguja and Pemba, saying the party has set 4pm on June 30, 2020 as the deadline to return the forms.