OVER 25 youth have benefited from a special training camp known as ‘unmatched basketball’ that winds up today at Bball Kitaa courts in Dar es Salaam. The training, which started on Wednesday in the city officially winds up today and the participants, claimed it to be highly educative. The five-day clinic has brought together boys aged between 12 and 19 who attended training on basketball skills while also transforming mindsets in the process. Phineas Kahabi the camp coordinator, told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the training has been going on well and youth are highly motivated with the training. Among others, Kahabi said the aim of the camp is to expose the youth to different varieties of valuable skills which were offered by different coaches. “We are trying to connect them with different well- known and highly experienced coaches, to give them chance on important things as players and as part of society too. “We have coach like Bahati Mgunda, who is well known for his commendable works, especially in coaching youth the best of basketball in terms of skills as a youth basketball coach,” he said. But he said that they have other national team coaches who have been tasked to train them main drills with free throws which help them to be the best in the field. “It also aims to give them life styles like what to do and not if they have any desire to become successful basketball players. “In our camp we also conduct sessions that help youth to calm their mind and focus on something important, we have strength and training session too, we call it 25/8. “We add a day and hour just to inspire youth to go extra mile in their mindset rather than thinking working 24 hours 7 days,” he said. He added that they teach them specific practice to do at gym, as they do not need to do everything like body builders, because it is different. Kahabi stressed that next move will be the girls camp that will be held at the same venue in July on a date to be announced later. He stated that his organisation conducts different programmes throughout the year as part of their contribution towards sports development.