THE Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) has pushed forward the dates for this year’s regional media awards which were set for October in Adds Ababa due to the impact of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, which has besides other countries across the world, plagued the African continent. NBI launched the 2020 nomination for the regional media awards which target to recognise the excellent work of journalists in the promotion of factual and accurate reporting on Nile cooperation and Nile Basin issues last month. According to a press statement, the event to recognise and reward balanced reporting on issues related to Nile cooperation and the Nile Basin, inspire journalists in the region to report more on issues surrounding Nile cooperation and the Nile Basin will be held next year. The award seeks to also “promote investigative journalism and accuracy as well as creativity and innovation in presenting information about key topics to the Basin, including water security, energy security, food security, environmental sustainability, climate change adaptation and trans-boundary water governance,” reads part of the statement. The statement says the award is open to all practising journalists as well as freelancers in mainstream media and multi-media outlets from Nile Basin countries, those that NBI has engaged with directly through training and other events as well as all others. “No entry fee is required,” it adds, but entries must be in either English, French, Arabic, Kiswahili, Amharic, Kirundi and Kinyarwanda languages. Entries in French, Arabic, Amharic, Kirundi, Kinyarwanda and Kiswahili should be sent along with a compulsory translation in English.” The opportunity is for all print (newspapers & magazines), radio, TV, photography and digital news publication from Tanzania, Burundi, the DRC, Egypt, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan and Uganda. NBI emphasised, however, that submitted articles must have a trans-boundary perspective and published between July 2017 and March 31, 2020. Nile Basin countries agreed on February 22, 1999 to cooperate to develop shared Nile Basin water resources, share substantial socioeconomic benefits and promote regional peace and security. This is, in addition, to jointly addressing challenges, which cannot be addressed by a single country acting alone. To date, all 10 NBI member states agree that Nile cooperation is not a choice, but a must- that it is the best way for ensuring sustainable management and utilisation of their shared Nile Basin water resources to maximise benefits and minimise risks and costs.