THE East African Legislative Assembly (Eala) has elected 12 commissioners to serve for two and half years in the fourth assembly. The election held virtually during the routine Eala’s sitting last week saw the return of four unopposed commissioners who served in the previous commission whose tenure of office ended last week. They include Kenyan Dr Oburu Oginga and Wanjiku Muhia, Ugandan Oda Gasinzigwa and Dr Francois Xavier Kalinda from Rwanda. Tanzanian commissioners included Dr Ngwaru Maghembe and Ms Josephine Lemoyaan, while Burundi was represented by Jean Marie Muhirwa and Mo-Mamo Karerwa. The two replaced former Burundian Minister for East African Community (EAC) Affairs Leontine Nzeyimana and Mr Chris Nduwayo. The Eala Rules and Procedures provide for each partner state to nominate two members for the commission and be duly elected. During the process, Tanzania, Kenya, Burundi and Rwanda, each nominated two members to the commission while Uganda and South Sudan nominated more than two members for the post of commissioners, thereby necessitating a vote by a secret ballot. Last week, each partner state nominated members of the election to the commission in accordance with Rule 83(3) of the Rules of Procedure of Eala. Early Tuesday, chairperson of the Committee on Legal Rules and Privileges Ndangiza Fatuma moved a motion under Section(3)(2) of the Administration of the Eala Act, 2012, listing the nominations of members on the floor to constitute the Eala commission, country by country. Before the election, members from South Sudan and Uganda were each given three minutes to address the Eala to justify their presence in the Eala Commission. Eala Speaker Martin Ngoga at the end of the exercise announced the results after the office of the clerk had tallied the votes and transmitted the outcome to the Speaker. The election of members of the commission is held in accordance with Section 3(2) of the Administration of Eala Act, 2012. The functions of the commission include managing, organising the business and programmes of the Eala, as well as the nomination of members to the standing and other committees of the Eala. The commission further recommends to the council of ministers, the appointment of the clerk and other officers of the Eala. The commission which is chaired by the Speaker also causes to be prepared each fiscal year, the estimates of revenue expenditure for the Eala for the next financial year. 