CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi’s Kisiwandui main office is expected to become a centre of attraction from this morning as the presidential candidate nomination race officially kicks off. Presidential aspirants are expected to start picking the nomination forms today and launch their bid to succeed the outgoing President Ali Mohamed Shein. CCM Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar) Dr Abdallah Juma Abdallah, speaking to reporters here over the weekend, invited all ‘courageous’ party members to collect the nomination papers for Zanzibar and union presidency but warned the corruption tainted individuals to remain at bay and Zanzibar presidencies are open for attempts, a strong competition is expected for the Zanzibar office whose incumbent, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, completes his two fiveyear terms later this year. The Union presidency is not likely to attract serious aspirants because it has been the ruling party’s tradition to easily approve the office bearer— currently Dr John Magufuli— to accomplish his constitutional two terms. The party’s chief executive officer in the Islands implored all party members wishing to join the race to thoroughly evaluate themselves. “CCM is the party of the people, and forms are available to all members,” declared Dr Abdallah, dismissing as malicious claims that the forms were being issued discriminatingly. He reminded CCM members to observe the party ethics, saying all applicants will be subjected to rigorous scrutiny to eliminate from the race all individuals with questionable credentials. Expounding on the key criteria for selecting the party’s flag bearers in the coming general elections, Dr Abdallah said CCM will among other things look for an ardent supporter of the union and democracy defender. “…we want somebody who will accept the fact that within the party there is competition, which however ceases once the party candidates have been picked…we don’t want people who will fan factions and embrace divisions,” he said. During the 16-day period, Zanzibar presidential applicants will have to collect the forms and seek 250 sponsors from at least three regions, with at least one region in Unguja and Pemba. The union presidential aspirants will as well have to seek approvals from 250 members in 12 regions, with at least three of them from Zanzibar. The party has set 4pm on June 30, 2020 as the deadline to return Zanzibar and union presidential nomination forms. But, the party has disqualified members of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC), Central Committee (CC) and General Meeting from sponsoring the aspirants, said the deputy secretary general, adding: “No member will be allowed to back more than one candidate.”