FRED Laizer stunned other opponents to win title at the Breakfast Golf League final tournament staged at the Tanzania People’s Defense Forces (TPDF), Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Organised by  the Breakfast group, the second quarter final was earlier planned to tee off in March this year, but it was forced to be played over the weekend after the decrease of coronavirus scare. The final brought together eight players who qualified to that stage, while other 29 took part in the subsidiary category. The winners were awarded trophies by the group’s captain, Joseph Tango. Laizer, who played off handicap 16, started the game slowly, but steadied his shots at the end to emerge the winner with 74 net strokes. He beat his closest challenger by five strokes over in the windy course. “It was a highly challenging final, I was little struggling in the start due to the strong winds, but I had to calm down and concentrate with the game and eventually I won it comfortably,” said Laizer. Famini Mabachi who carded 81 net strokes, finished second, while Golf Pro, Mohabe Nyirabu finished third overall in the 18-hole event. Mohamed Rweyemamu was also recognised as Most Valuable Player (MVP), during the final. The League’s Master, Steven Chuwalo stressed that Rweyemamu was very active and regular at the league, playing 38 games in total. “Rweyemamu deserves award because he is very important person in our group. He has been involved in 38 games, myself, I managed only 19 games,” he said. Tango, the former Tanzania Golf Union (TGU), chairman, handed over the awards for subsidiary category  winner Kain Mbaya who returned an impressive 72 net strokes while the runner up position went to 14 handicapper Ivan Kasiga  who netted  81 strokes and the third-placed finisher, Steven Chuwalo who netted 85 strokes playing off 10 handicap. “We are grateful to those who turned out for the competition, it was a successful one, initially we expected to complete it in March 2020, but was postponed to June due to Covid-19 scare. Now we are happy that we have done it. “I would like to welcome all members for the third quarter which will be start on July 1st he said. Lugalo Club Captain Japhet Masai who addressed on behalf of Chairman Michael Luwongo, said that they appreciate the commendable job being done by Breakfast and other groups at  the club. “The chairman complements the group’s captain Tango and the League master Chuwalo since this is first event staged at the club since sports activities resumed. He also insists golfers to observe Covid-19 safety measures that include social distancing,” said Masai.