FORMER Azam FC striker Donald Ngoma said he cherished a lot his stay at the club in comparison with his past team Young Africans, where he made his fame. The two sides opted to go separate ways recently after failing to agree on contract extension terms which made Azam to declare that Ngoma is free to join any team of his interest. Speaking via a telephone from Zimbabwe, Ngoma opened up, saying he enjoyed a lot his playing career in the country while serving the Ice cream makers. “The period I left Yanga, I was injured as such, I had to spend some time off the pitch but when I recovered, I was physiologically happy to play at Azam than Yanga,” he said. He added that while in Zimbabwe were he went due to Covid-19 pandemic, he received a phone call from Azam FC Chief Executive Officer (CEO),  Abdulkarim Amin who requested him to come and play in friendly matches so that they can assess him and possibly extend his contract but he denied. “He insisted that it could have been better if I was in Tanzania so that I can play friendly matches prior to the resumption of the league and hence they can decide to extend my contract. “To my side, I saw it as inappropriate and he told me that if I do not play the friendly games, I should go on with other plans of my life. I accepted that and agreed that I should not return to the team,” Ngoma said. He also disclosed that before he went to Zimbabwe, the club never talked about his future only to be called after arriving in his native country. Again, Ngoma conceded that his performance dropped saying that might be the reason why the club was no longer interested with his services. “If you are a foreign based player, you need to show up your abilities to deserve what the club gives you but for my side, my level dropped and I was far away to catch up with my teammates,” said he. On his part, Azam FC Information Officer,  Thabit Zakaria named Ngoma as a good person who has no problems with anyone. “His contract expired last Sunday hence he is a free player who can join any club without restrictions from us. He is a great player only that we failed to agree on other terms in our efforts to extend his stay at the club,” Zakaria said.