YOUNG Africans ended their three-match winless run profitably after defeating Ndanda 3-2 in a five-goal thriller at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The hard-earned victory enabled the Jangwani Street side to leapfrog Azam, who yesterday shared spoils with Biashara United of Mara at Karume Stadium in Musoma Yanga have now hauled 60 points while, Azam who have been forced to settle at the third place, parade 59 points. Prior to yesterday’s win, Yanga had stamped series of draw in their three league games; Hence they were keen to win yesterday to revive hopes of finishing second. It all started with a 1-1 draw with JKT Tanzania, then a barren draw with Azam FC before they were forced to a 2-2 tie with Namungo FC at home. The yesterday game was lively and highly entertaining. It took Yanga just six minutes to open their goal account through Deus Kaseke. The speedy striker completed Ditram Nchimbi’s efforts. The lead survived only four minutes when Abdul Hamis equalised for Ndanda FC with a strong strike in a lovely one-two passes with Omary Hamis. In the 16th minute Omary Mponda stunned Yanga with a second goal when his tricky free kick found the back of the net past Yanga goalie Farouk Shikalo. A minute before the half time, Deus Kaseke equalised for Yanga with a superb header being an assist from the team’s skipper, Juma Abdul. Mrisho Ngassa, who replaced Nchimbi in the second half, made his first attempt a minute after his arrival, but his shot hit a post before it was cleared by Ndanda FC defenders. But his efforts in the 73rd minute paid off as he scored the winner after finishing a volley sent by Juma Abdul from the right flank. Karume Stadium in Musoma was thorny to Azam after hosts Biashara United held them to a 1-1 draw. The draw denied Azam two points and a loss of their second position as well. Azam FC skipper, Frank Domayo scored the opening goal in the 48th minute but that did not last long as Biashara equalised in the 90th minute. With the results Biashara United have now climbed to the 9th place, two steps above their previous position. Mwadui FC defeated Mtibwa Sugar 1-0, with a goal netted Wallace Kiango in the 56th minute. Also Alliance FC defeated Coastal Union 1-0. The scorer of the winning goal was Martine Kiggi in 47th minute. Kagera Sugar drew 1-1 with Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC). KMC netted the opener through Abdul Hassan in the 22nd minute, but Yusuph Mhilu equalised it five minutes before the half time. Ruvu Shooting also drew with Namungo by 1-1. Abeid Athuman netted an opener for Namungo in 16th before William Patrick returned hopes to Ruvu Shooting with an equaliser in the 30th minute. Mbeya City revived hopes to Mbeya residents after they secured a 2-0 win over JKT Tanzania. Their goals came from Peter Mapunda in 37th minute and Patson Shigala in the 92nd minute.