TANZANIANS have been encouraged to turn up in their huge numbers to mark the International Day of Yoga (IDY), tomorrow, through virtual sessions organised by the Indian High Commission to Tanzania. India High Commissioner to Tanzania, Sanjiv Kohli told journalists on Wednesday in Dar es Salaam that themed ‘Ghar Ghar se Yoga – Yoga from Home’ the IDY sessions will be aired through various Commissions’ social media, including facebook and Whatsap from 8.00am. He said they have organised virtual sessions due to global spread of Covid-19, encouraging people to fully participate from their homes, with regard that health experts have been regularly exposing mass benefits of Yoga, including both physical and mental health. “Experts say that Yoga exercises recharge the body with cosmic energy and facilitate attainment of perfect equilibrium and harmony, promotes self-healing, removes negative blocks from the mind and toxins from the body and enhances personal power,” he said. It has been also recorded that Yoga practice serve in living with greater awareness, helps in attention, focus and concentration, especially important for children and reduces stress and tension in the physical body by activating the parasympathetic nervous system. According to him, people regardless of age, gender, nationality, colour and creed stand united today in the fight against Coronavirus disease, hence, considering the importance of keeping one’s immune system strong, it is imperative that they (people) spend time wisely by practicing Yoga. He insisted that according to health experts, practice of Yoga provides natural support to the immune system. By lowering stress hormones in one’s body, Yoga fortifies the immune system. Apart from that, Yoga conditions the lungs and respiratory tract, stimulates the lymphatic system removing toxins from the body, and ensures the optimal functioning of human organs. The High Commissioner further said that, it has been also recorded that when one begins the day with Yoga, it keeps him/her active, energetic, positive and clear-headed, hence, people should follow a regular practice of exercise. It was further noted that there are several instances that recorded the gradual increase in the immunity in the body and resistance to diseases by the practice of Yoga and breathing techniques. “Mankind is finding a new hope in this traditional Indian knowledge to carry out its fight against modern lifestyle diseases and also pandemic like Covid-19,” said the High Commissioner.