PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has instructed the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to arrest all politicians who engage in graft practices ahead of the General Election. He made the statement yesterday as he briefly met Lindi region’s leaders shortly after landing at the Nachingwea airport on his way to Ruangwa District for a working tour. He reminded the public that giving and receiving bribes is a crime according to the law and that authorities should deal with the vice accordingly. “There are some people who are used to corruption during general elections, this isn’t acceptable at all and the government will deal with those who would engage in bribery,” he said. The PM said the government has already instructed all security committees to work as a team on ensuring the election is held with no corruption incident, and those who would engage in such unlawful acts, should be arrested and face the law. The Premier maintained that the move is aimed at ensuring free and fair elections for the country to have quality leaders. In his speech that he gave before parliamentarians recently in Dodoma, Mr Majaliwa reminded all political parties and other stakeholders to adhere to the law, constitutions, rules and regulations governing the general election. He used the platform to urge all Tanzanians to continue maintaining peace and unity of the country during this crucial period for which the country is going to get leaders for the next five years. Earlier this month, the anti-corruption watchdog revealed that it had arrested six people in connection with taking bribe from a prospective candidate for the October 2020 general elections. According to statement issued by Pilly Mwakasege, the head of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) for Kinondoni in Dar es Salaam, the suspects were arrested shortly after the prospective candidate dished out envelopes containing 50,000/- each for the suspects who are leaders of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party Mbezi Ward on the outskirts of the commercial capital Dar es Salaam. "The prospective candidate bribed the suspects so that they can help him to campaign in the initial electoral process," said Mwakasege in the statement. PCCB Director General John Mbungo, had previously vowed to stop electoral fraud in the October general elections. Brig Gen Mbungo said PCCB will leave no stone unturned toward the investigation of corrupt candidates or political parties in the course of the electoral process, adding that offenders will face full force of law.