DESPITE the effects brought about by Covid- 19 to various economic sectors in the world, Tanzania’s mining sector has continued to perform well as the monthly revenues for April has broken a record ever, hitting 58bn/-collection. “This has never happened. The previous highest monthly revenue collected was 43bn/-,” President John Magufuli stated as he highlighted achievements reached in the sector during five years of his first term in power. Speaking when dissolving the 11th Parliament this week, the President said due to various mining reforms, including in the legal regime, the annual revenues have continued to maintain an upward trend year by year. In the 2018/19 fiscal year, the mineral resources have earned the country 346bn/-from 194bn/-recorded in the 2016/17. The revenues further increased to 470bn/-during the current 2019/20 financial year. The Head of State told Members of Parliament and the general public through a live televised speech that the mining sector had started growing tremendously. Last year, mining was listed as the fastest-growing sectors, topping all others with a growth rate of 17.7 percent followed by the construction sector which grew by 14.1 percent. Some of the reforms made in the sector were establishment of the ministry specifically for minerals, and curbing smuggling of raw minerals outside the country. Dr Magufuli also cited the introduction of regional mineral markets as another initiative which contributed to the prosperity of the sector. Other major reform initiatives were to increase participation of small business people in the mining value chain, which involved scrapping or reducing some of the levies that were affecting their operations. “Above all, in July 2017, we passed the Natural Wealth and Resources-Permanent Sovereignty- Act 2017 which guarantees protection of national resources such as minerals,” the President stated, thanking the Parliament for its move to endorse such as the law for the national interest. He further credited the Parliament: “Surely you have entered into the country’s history books and I believe your legacy will live generation after generation.” The passing of this Act has for the first time enabled Tanzanians to own their resources with legal powers. This law facilitated the formation of the Twiga Minerals Corporation which is jointly owned by the Government and the Barrick Gold Corporation. In the agreement, the new company is owned 84 percent by Barrick and 16 percent by the government, and is based on a 50/50 sharing of the economic benefits generated by the mining operations after the recoupment of capital investments. The new agreement with Barrick also saw the company paying $100m (250bn/) to the government, which is the first tranche of $300m owed to the Tanzanian government after the sides agreed in 2019 to settle allegations of the unpaid tax. The president thanked Parliament for forming the committee for investigating the trade of tanzanite, diamond, natural gas and deepsea fishing and providing advice for the construction of the 25-kilometre wall surrounding the Mirerani mine. The president pointed out that other achievements made in the sector included the issuance of 221 mining licenses, four mineral smelting licenses and four other licenses for refining. The government has also earmarked 38,567 hectares of land for artisanal miners and trained 10,338 of them.