MINISTER for Works, Communication and Transport, Eng Issac Kamwelwe has said that a special task force has been formed to market Mwanza International Airport so that more commercial and cargo airlines can use the facility. Speaking shortly after a joint meeting that brought together members from all concerned ministries, departments and institutions, Eng Kamwelwe said they want more farm and livestock produce being exported from the Mwanza airport. He said they are currently making sure that all facilities are available at the airport for both passengers and cargo going through the facility. Eng Kamwelwe said they started exporting fish fillets and other products since May 20th, and as of June, 1 this year, more than177 tonnes have been exported through the airport. As for commercial flights, he said RwandAir has confirmed to start flying from Mwanza airport to a number of destinations worldwide as they market for more commercial airlines and make the airport busy just like the Julius Nyerere International Airport. He told the media that all challenges, including lack of a fence and cold rooms have been solved because they have been put in place to accommodate the needs of airport users. “We want frozen fish exports to have the required standards, therefore facilities have been set up so that our products can have the best quality in international markets, and in so doing improve the socio-economic wellbeing of the people,” he insisted. He said fish exports was among the area which has not been well tapped, that is why the government is improving its infrastructures, including Tanga and Dar es Salaam ports to accommodate the deep sea frozen fish export. The minister said they are also planning to improve the Songwe airport infrastructure so that avocado and other horticulture products can be exported directly to international markets. The move, Eng Kamwelwe, said intends to fetch the best prices for the local products in the international markets and ultimately improve the socio-economic welfare of the farmers.