NOT too long ago, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), a vital watch-dog and oversight national institution, was under assault. Quite clearly, the general public was concerned about its nature, model of operation, and whether the body has the necessary and enough powers vested in it to deliver its mission. The key question then was; Is the institution really able to fight the menace of corruption? Put it simply, the Tanzanian public square was not only unconvinced, but was filled with suspicion and distrust of the highest level. Given PCCB’s current renewed promise and uncompromising drive, a moment of hope for the nation, in our view, citizens’ worry was genuine and unpretentious. Now the gear has been changed. The direction is new, and the future is bright. I will illuminate. Certainly, the tone has now significantly changed, and for better. There are now tangible signs and concrete evidence suggesting that wariness on PCCB performance is dying and the mistrust is steadily replaced by a sense of euphoric atmosphere centred on its advancement and an increasingly effective role in fighting perceived and real graft, in the public as well as private sector. This is great news, and in my view, I wish to reiterate, it is a moment of national hope and optimism. It is indeed wonderful news not only for the wellbeing of our nation, but more importantly at this opportune time when election is approaching and the concerns on corruption, electoral fraud, sometimes referred to as election fraud, election manipulation or vote rigging, could easily surface and therefore provide a hatching ground for illegal interference of the process of our 2020 election. I say important at this point in time because it is impossible to separate a healthy democracy and the threats of corruption in any country. This is true because the two concepts are interrelated. We are approaching a critical moment. And our argument is true, because any democratic backsliding, a growing malaise in most states on the continent, often initiated through electoral channels fuelled by civic disenchantment about corruption and democracy’s ability to deliver results can be dangerous to the nation. No wonder today any allegation which reached PCCB is not left unattended. There is no more room for allowing corruption which in the past populists tapped into citizen discontent on it. No question about this. The world knows that corruption in democracies is dangerous. If it is allowed to bud, the said democracy would need many years to be able to wrestle in order to regain their legitimacy. Taking for example the perceived inability of democracies, as a result of allowing corruption to thrive during elections will lead to incompetence among elected leaders, to reduce corruption and socioeconomic and political inequalities, among other challenges. This scenario would go beyond to include a serious reduced trust in any democracy itself. The way I see PCCB new determination, I wish to humbly warn politicians, and all who are planning to stand for the coming election. They have to be careful. PCCB is new and knows very well that election time is usually a critical moment because it is always associated with the problem of mobilising and spending of money. They know that Election Expenses Act is available and could help, but their tentacles are already everywhere, no wonder the institutional agenda has gone beyond, in that it is no longer silent even on sexual corruption and other forms of favouritism which, in the past, were on the increase. And PCCB achievements are not without evidence. We know of the acknowledgement on the recent remarkable progress on the Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index (CPI), East African Bribery Index and a fair judgement and sincere opinion by some high level members of the international community that grand corruption in our country is on the wane. To a more positive side of its success, we cannot avoid the fact that being well situated due to a strong local and national presence, as well as the ongoing determination for improvement in, among many other steps, personnel changes and organisational restructuring, this has in many ways enhanced its operational effectiveness. Well this is good, but I would not say we have reached a point that we can sit back and relax. The war must continue, for the menace thrives in an environment of secrecy, and it has always been challenging to detect and measure it with a view to designing and executing an appropriate response. Likewise, though not yet fully realized, but the slow but sound change in the culture of corruption, respect for the institution, and its most needed protection from political attacks and the like, is something that needs cherishing. Many in the public square believe that all these have categorically enhanced PCCB’s reputation and integrity. There is no question that trust has raised the performance bar for staff, their partners, and for the citizens they serve in their pursuit of maintaining their significant advances in reducing corruption. But what does this say of our nation? Well, this drastic change which begun a few years back speaks louder than many could postulate. It has its origin. Looking back on the days when the fight against corruption became a politically contestable agenda in most political and policy competitions in the country, leading to the Warioba Commission instituted in the 1990s, and placing corruption at the centre of the country’s socio-political discourse. We can easily and smoothly link the current successes with the commitment to removing of shortcomings which have and continue to affect most African anti-corruption bureau’s operations and functioning as a contemporary anti-corruption agency. It is much clearer now that the fifth government knows very well that anything that weakens the bureau’s ability to pursue its mandate effectively should not be allowed to creep in the system. To know this is great, because some of these faults normally tend to seriously compromise the independence of most anti-corruption institutions and their ability to perform. Our research in the discipline reminds us of these shortcomings to include, but not limited to, lack of political will, political interference and patronage by other bodies. If not checked, these can be serious obstacles frustrating the anti-corruption agencies’ work not only in my country but across the continent. I stand to be corrected, but in connection to my foregoing submission, and once again, I believe its success is a result of a number of supportive platforms, one of the most important being the government decisive and unbending top-down anti-corruption drive with some wonderful sensible measures by the fifth government. Thus, this is a moment of hope for our nation. We certainly cannot and should not ignore the contemporary PCCB upbeat progress. Their renewed promise and uncompromising drive to root out persistent corruption which, for quite a long time, robbed ordinary citizens of opportunities of service provision and better quality of life cannot be swept under that carpet. But PCCB still needs support. Here I mean continued backing from the government and many other stakeholders, especially help from wananchi, who unfortunately, some of them have tended to think that fighting corruption is the work solely designed and should be done by PCCB alone. It is not. Not at all. In fact, citizens have a great role to play in the fight against corruption. PCCB needs cooperation from other watch-dog and oversight institutions too. This I suggest because, in my view, what PCCB needs now, and something which will continue to make the institution even more strong, effective and productive, is a long-term strategic thinking well translated in terms of the need for institutionalisation of robust and resilient accountability mechanisms and culture. This is crucial because if it is missed, then we will be opening up for large implementation gaps, making the advancement we see today made by the institution look vague and unfocused. It is important that PCCB oversight remains protected and space given for them to press on as they seek to contribute to the flourishing of our nation. Let us support them to achieve both institutional and national targets. So it is time to cherish PCCB’s transformed promise and uncompromising determination for it represents a moment of national hope. Though not without challenges, but the institution is making a difference. Let it keep on keeping on. Let my reader, the general public and PCCB remember that today’s corruption challenges cry out, not only for an urgent and bold solution, but novel solutions as well. Cheers! • Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of T anzania, Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997