MY second  term  in  the  office  of  Speaker,  started  with  the  2000  general  elections;   When  I  happily  sailed  through  the   Speaker’s   election  completely  unchallenged,  neither  from  within  the  Ruling  party,  nor from  the  Opposition  parties. In  those  pleasant  circumstances,  I  invited  the  Speaker  of  the  British  House  of  Commons,  Hon.  Miss  Betty  Boothroyd,  to  attend  my  swearing-in  ceremony  in  Dodoma,  which  she  kindly  accepted,  and  graciously  attended.  It  was,  indeed,  a  very  auspicious  start  to  my  new  term  in  office. But  that is  also when  President  Benjamin Mkapa  chose  to  display his extraordinary  confidence  in  me;  For  he  chose  to hand  over  to  me the  name  of  his  nominee  for  the  Premiership,  the  day  before  voting  day.   And,  when  doing  so, he  decided to  even  explain  how  he  had  arrived  at  his  choice. He  said  that in  his  experience,  “the  smooth  running  and  success  of  Government  business  in  Parliament,  largely  depends  on  the  relationships  between  the  Speaker,  and  the  Prime  Minister.  If  these  are  not  cordial,  Government  business  is  bound  to  suffer.  I  have  been  observing  your  manifest  close  friendship  with  the  outgoing  Prime Minister,  especially  from  the  way  you  frequently  socialize  together  in  your  Speaker’s  Lounge.  It  is  on  that  basis,  that  I have  decided  to  re-appoint  Fredrick  Sumaye”. My  second  term  was  generally  devoted  to  the  continuation   of  efforts  to  ensure  the  effective functioning  of  the  multi-party Parliament. But  there  were  also  other  developments  which  are  worth  putting  on  record. More  challenges  of  the  multi-party  Parliament Another   serious  challenge  of  the  new  multi-party Parliament  was  created  by  the  2000  general  elections,  which  produced  a  negative  “balance  sheet”  for  the  Opposition  parties,  because  they  obtained  a  combined  strength  of  only  29  parliamentary  seats,  and  this  fell  short  of  the  minimum  number  of  30  MPs  required for  them  to  qualify  to  be  allowed  to  form  the  Official  Opposition  in  Parliament. I  was  of  the  settled  view,  that  a  multi-party  Parliament   always  needs   an  Official  Opposition   for  its  proper  and  efficient  functioning. Thus,  I  had   to  do  something  to  rescue  the  situation.  I  therefore   decided,  and  ruled,  that  the  relevant   Rules  be  amended,  so  as  to  reduce  the minimum  number  required  (for  the  opposition  to  qualify  to  form  the  Official  Opposition),   from  30 MPs, down  to  20  MPs. This  was  done,   which   enabled  CUF  to  form  a  coalition  with  UDP  to  establish  the  Official  Opposition,  this  time  with   John  Cheyo  (MP)  of  UDP  being  the  leader  of  the  Opposition. But  then,  because  CUF  had  disputed  the  Zanzibar  Presidential  election  results,  they  decided (unreasonably)  to  demonstrate  their  dissatisfaction  and  anger,   by  ordering  their  members  of  both  the  Zanzibar  House  of  Representatives,  and  those  of  the  Union  Parliament,  to  boycott  all  the  sessions  of  these  Houses  respectively. Hence,   ironically,   John  Cheyo  was  forced  to  function  as  leader  of  an  absentee  17-strong  CUF  battalion!  My spirited defence of Parliament in a Court of Appeal Judgment episode At  the  beginning  of  the  year  2002,  I became  involved  in   a  minor   incident  which  however,  unexpectedly,  created  what  could  be  aptly  described  as  “a  storm  in  a  tea  cup”, and was  totally  unprecedented.  It all started  with  an  inoffensive  and  innocuous  article  I  had  written,  for  the  purpose  of explaining  Parliament’s  intention  in  passing  a  certain  piece  of  legislation;  which  the  Tanzania  Court of Appeal  had just   nullified,  on  the   ground  that  “Parliament  had  exceeded  its  legislative  powers”  in  enacting  that  law. My  article  was published  in  two  local  English  language  newspapers,  the  Daily  News; and  The African,  on  26th  February, 2002. This  article  was  simply  commenting  on,  and  certainly  not  challenging  or  criticizing,  the  judgment  which  had  been  delivered  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  of  Tanzania  on  14th  February,  2002,   in  the  case  of  Julius  Ishengoma  Francis  Nyanabo  vs  the  Attorney  General. In  its  judgment,  the  Court  had  held  that  section  112 (2)  of  the  Elections   Act,  1985; was  unconstitutional.  The  provisions  of  that  section  had  required  the  petitioner in  an  election  petition  to  deposit  in  court,  as  security  for  costs, the  sum   of  5 m/-,  without  which  his  case  could  not proceed  to  hearing. My  motivation  for  writing  the  said  article  was  certainly not  to  challenge  the  said  court  judgment.   I  was  fully  aware  that  court judgments  can  only  be  challenged  by  way  of  appeal  to  a  higher  court,  if  that  is  possible;  But  that  was  not  possible  in  this  particular case,  because  the  judgment  came  from  the  Court  of  Appeal,  which  is  the  apex  court  in  Tanzania. My  enthusiasm  in  writing  that  article  was  purely  academic.  It  was  based  on  my  desire  to  make  a  presentation  of  a   piece  of  legal  literature,  largely  for  the  digestion  of  the  legal  fraternity. For  that  purpose,   I   mainly  focused  on   the  new  developments  in  the field  of  law,  which  had  just  been published  in  the  authoritative  “Latimer  House  Guidelines  for  the  Commonwealth”. These  guidelines   were  drawn  up  at  a  professional meeting  of  the  “Commonwealth  Magistrates  and  Judges’ Association; the  Commonwealth  Lawyers’  Association; and  the  Commonwealth  Legal  Education  Association”;  which  was  held  at  Latimer  House  in  the  United  Kingdom,  from  15th  to  19th  June,  1998. In  other  words,  that  article  was  a  purely  intellectual  and  academic  exercise;  done  in  the  knowledge  and  conviction  that  it  would  have  no  effect whatsoever  on  the  relevant court judgment;  Which  had  even  admitted  that  “bearing  in  mind  the decline  of  the  value  of  the  shilling  which  has taken  place  since  1971 when  these  rules  were  made,  it  cannot  be  disputed  that  the  sum  of  500/- is  now  too  little  to  serve  any  useful  purpose  in  terms  of  providing  security  for  costs;  But  it  is  not  within  the  competence  of  this  court,  or  of  any other  court  for  that  matter, to  amend  that  Rule”. However,  to  my  utter  surprise  and  astonishment,  the  “learned  brothers”  of  the  Tanganyika  Law  Society,   responded  to  my  article  by  issuing   a  prepared  statement  to  the  press,  ‘giving  it  a  bad  name’  and  mischievously  ‘hanging  it’!  In their statement,  they   falsely  and  mischievously  claimed  that  my  article  was  “an attack  on  the  Judiciary  by  the  Speaker”; Slavishly aping one malicious Kiswahili  Newspaper,  which  had  responded  to  my  article,  in  its  front page  headline,  with the mischievous   wording  of  “MSEKWA  ASHAMBULIA  MAJAJI”;  When  that  strange  notion  of  “attacking  the  Judges”  was  not  there  at  all  in  my absolutely innocuous  article. !                                                                                                                                      This  eventually  turned  out  to  be  no  more  than   a  ‘storm  in  a  tea  cup’.  The  full  story  of  that  whole  episode  is  told  in  my  book titled  “The  Story  of  the  Tanzania  Parliament”  (Nyambari  Nyangwine  Publishers,  Dar es Salaam,  2012). Fortunately for me, Parliament soon  took advantage of the  Court of  Appeal’s  admission  in  their  judgment,  that  “the sum  of  500/-was  put  in  place  in  1971  is  too  little  to  serve  the  intended purpose”,  and  enacted  a  replacement  legislation  which,  not  only  revived  the  requirement  for  a  5m/-deposit,  but   enhanced  that sum by  making  it  payable  “ for  each  and  every   count  listed  in  the  petition”.  Great!  I  had  won  the  battle  against  an  unwarranted,  oppressive  harassment.  End of my tenure at the Speaker’s Office The  2000  general  election  is  what  ushered  in  the  fourth  phase  Government  of  President  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete.  The  Presidential  election  of  2005  was  the  most  comfortable  ever for  Chama  cha  Mapinduzi,  in  terms  of  election  results;   for  the  CCM  candidate  scored  the  most   resounding  victory  ever  since  the  reintroduction  of  the  multi-party  political  electoral  system  in  1995,    securing 80.2 percent  of  the  total  valid  votes;  and  winning  in 206  constituencies.  The  end  of  my  tenure  at  the  Speaker’s  Office As  the  end  of  my  second  term  approached,  I made  a  personal  decision that I  would  not  seek  re-election  for  another  term  as  Speaker;  and  announced  this  decision  in  an  interview  with  the  Government  newspaper,  the  'Daily  News'.  I  had  told  the  Paper  that  I  had  greatly  enjoyed  a  very  rewarding  15  years  guiding  the  affairs  of  Parliament  from  the  Speaker’s  Chair;  plus    the  fact  that  I   would  be  reaching  the  age  of  seventy  years;  and  also  that  Parliament  had  already  passed  new  legislation  which  provided   very   handsome  retirement  benefits  to  retired  Speakers;  I  will  be  happy  to  retire  and  continue  to enjoy  these  benefits. The  'Daily  News'  made my statement  front  page  ‘breaking  news’  the  next  morning.   But  then,  external  influence  stared  appearing;  Urging  me to  accept  “one  final  term,  while the new young President Kikwete gets properly settled in his new  responsibilities”.  I  was persuaded  by  this  argument,  and  filled  the  requisite  CCM  election documents. However,  unknown  to  me  and  my  friends  and  supporters,  was  the  fact  that  there  had  emerged  a  serious  struggle  for  power    regarding  the  coveted  position  of  Prime  Minister;  for  which  there  were   two  powerful  aspirants, Edward  Lowassa  and  Samuel  Sitta;  and  a  settlement  had  to  be  reached  on  who  would  get  that  post. This  information was  revealed  to  me  by    the  CCM  Vice-Chairman,  John  Samuel  Malecela (MP),  after he  was  visited  by  Hon.  Samuel  Sitta (MP),  who  came  to  seek  the Vice–Chairman’s valuable support and endorsement for his  bid  for  the  Speakership. On  Malecela’s  inquiry  why  he  had  decided  to  vie  for  the  Speakership  when  the  incumbent  Pius  Msekwa  had  already  indicated  his  intention  to  seek  re-election;  Samuel  Sitta  explained  that  “it  is  because  the  ‘hot’  contest  for  the  Premiership  has  been  amicably  settled  by President  Kikwete,  who  has  decided  that  Edward  Lowassa  will  be  awarded  the  Premiership,  and  I  will be  awarded  the  Speakership”.  In  view  of  that, he said,  he  had   come  “to  seek  the  Vice-Chairman’s  blessings  and support  in  his  bid  for  the  Speakership”. Hon  Malecela  told  me  that  he  had  been  greatly  disturbed  by  this  information;   and  that  was  why  he  wanted  to  share  it  with  me  at  once.   I  too  became  equally  disturbed,  and  I  decided  to  verify  the  information  with  President  Kikwete  himself;  For  which I  sought  appointment,  and  was  immediately granted  audience. But  President  Kikwete   denied  knowledge  of  any  such  underground  pact.  He  had  apparently  been  by-passed,  so  he quickly checked and  found  out  that  it  was  the  work  of  a  ‘King-makers’ cabal  among  his  own  friends  within  the  CCM  MPs. And,  indeed,  its  existence  was  confirmed  in  the  evening  of  the  same  day,  at  a  pre-arranged grand  reception  held  at  State  House  to  celebrate  President  Kikwete’s  election  victory;  at which  that  cabal  conducted  a  vigorous  campaign among  the  MPS  present  there,  for  Samual  Sitta’s  election  to  the  Speakership. According  to  the  CCM  election  Rules,  it  was  by  then  too  late  for  me  to  withdraw  my  candidature. But  I  refrained  from  wasting  time  doing  any  kind  of  campaigning;  and  just  waited  for  the  inevitable  to  happen,  when   I  was  declared  the  loser. However,  that  did  not  unduly  disturb  me,  because  I  could  now  fall  back  on  my  handsome  Speaker’s  retirement  benefits.  And,  in  addition,  President  Kikwete  very  soon  appointed  me  to  the  Chairmanship  of  the Ngorongoro  Conservation  Area  Authority (NCAA),  Board  of  Directors;  and  a  little  later,  he  sponsored  my  election  to  the  post  of  CCM  Vice-Chairman,  to  replace  veteran  John  Samuel Malecela. The  inevitable  pain  of  being made  victim  of  a  coup  executed   by  that  ‘King-makers’  cabal,  was  adequately  relieved  and  compensated. (Will  continue  next  week) piomsekwa@gmail.com   /0754767576    