STEWART Brogden overpowered tough opponents to claim the MAK Music & Art Center Golf title in a 18-hole tournament held at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club over the weekend. The Dar es Salaam-based South African, Brogden gallantly raced to the podium with a brilliant ten-under par 46 stable-ford points, the best ever score stamped at the event. Joyful Brogden lauded Tanzania President John Magufuli for bringing back sports in the country after being stopped since Mid-March, saying he has done an incredible job. “I think Tanzania President has done a wonderful job in fighting the scare of coronavirus crisis, he set a good example, and now we have this chance to participate in the sports,” said Brogden. He added that, it feels good to see sports back and he and his colleagues are delighted to return at the course as sports are very important in creating a healthy society. Brogden also lauded the tournament’s sponsor MAK Music & Art Center for providing wonderful prizes. The tournament also declared Sue van Zyl the winner of the Ladies category after she posted 34 points. Besides the prize, Zyl was also named tournament’s longest drive winner after beat all competitors including men. “I’m very happy to win my first golf title; To win the longest drive also came as bonus, I hope to continue doing well after this tournament,” she said. The event also saw Rick Park hit 38 points to finish Division A winner as Ajay Shah returned 32 points to win Division C title. Youngster Qois Bhanji and Khushi Soni were awarded as boys and girls upcoming players. Addresses during prize giving ceremony, Krishna Soni a MAK Music & Art Center Director said they are happy to be given honor to sponsor the event which was first since Covid-19 crisis. “This it is second time our new center we sponsor golf event, we are happy doing that. We are committed supporting sports and at the same time promote arts and music sector,” she said. Soni added that the center that official open today after closed since March due to Covid-19 crisis also committed to give people best education about modern music and arts. “We welcome everyone to visit our centre and see what we do. We believe each one can learn music and arts, I invite everyone to come and join us there,” stressed Soni. One of the competitors, Munir Bharwani, who spoke on behalf of players, thanked the sponsor and club for bringing golf back to the course. He requested the golf section to continue organising many tournaments so that to keep the club active. However, Akil Jaffer, the Competition Secretary, assured golfers that there will be a golf tournament event every weekend.