SAID Bakar Ndesho, 44, is one of the few talented persons with disability in Zanzibar. Being blind has not prevented him from becoming an admirable ‘doormats’, maker using traditional materials and methods. Ndesho, who has two wives and seven children, is famous in Unguja as ‘Madera.’ He has made thousands of quality doormats in the past two decades alongside training or transferring the skills to other people who are blind. “Despite some challenges, I love my work of making doormats because it has made my family socially and economically stable,” the visually impaired Ndesho said. He says lack of reliable market to sell products, and old type of working equipment are some of the challenges hampering their development in doormat manufacturing yet there have been no direct support from the government and the society. The ‘Arts & Crafts’ man said that they have been working under ‘Shangilia Shop’ established in 1989 by a hard working Swedish women and a volunteer Ms Birgitta Karlsson who started by training the blind how to make/weave the doormats. It was two-year training, but since Ndesho was ‘bright enough,’ he managed to grasp the knowledge and skills to make the doormat within only two months and became a tutor, assisting Ms Karlsson. About 30 blind (almost half of them women) have been trained to make doormats and mats using locally available materials, and also brail reading. Some training staffs or facilitators were from the government (department of social welfare) but only served for a short period of time. According to Ndesho, the tutors from the social welfare department did not teach him for long, and the government’s support diminished after only one-year, on the pretext of lack of finance, leaving the project to the Swedish woman. “We are happy to have been working with committed Ms Karlsson, she has helped many of us (the blind) have the skills. We now produce quality doormats,” Mr Ndesho said saying lack of market hampers the progress. He said if the government’s offices bought the doormats, they would have generated funds to make the ‘Shangilia shop’ at Mkunazini Street, Stone Town grow, and also be able to buy raw materials. Mr Ndesho said that their products (mainly doormats) are bought by few tourist hotels, and individual people, while the majority people and government offices buy doormats from China at relatively higher price compared to the price of their products. He said the doormats from Zanzibar are made from coconut husks fibre, environmentally friendly, affordable, eye-catching, and durable, but would be their main customer (government offices) has not put into practice their promise of supporting activities by people with disability. “On several occasions, we have taken part in exhibitions organized during festival such as ZIFF and ‘Sauti Za Busara’ Music festival, but normally fail to get enough customers to buy our products from our pavilion,” lamented Ndesho. He appealed to the authorities, and all members of the society to support them by buying their products so that the business grows, and also benefit economically as it is the only employment they have. Born in Micheweni district, Pemba Island, Mr Ndesho became blind following an accident when he was five years old. He was accidentally knocked by a friend in the left eye, “blood clotted in the eye, and the infection crossed to the second eye.” “My parents thought it was not a serious problem, but it became worse and it was too late to be treated in hospital. Unfortunately when I attained the age of 16 years, I was told I would no longer see again in my life. Therefore I had no chance of going to school, at that time due to parents’ ignorance,” Ndesho said. But although I did not go for the formal education, my skills as ‘arts and crafts’ man has been keeping me happy with my children, ensuring my two wives and children get the basic needs. He said he lives in Kianga Village, about 11 Kilometres, west of the Stone Town, where he travels to/from using common commuter bus- Daladala. “I travel alone; I know where to get-off from Daladala. Many people help me in case of any emergency needed, but sometimes others are not friendly, they want me to stay at home because I am blind.” Ms Karlsson who has travelled back to Sweden said insufficient working space, and lack of market remain challenges that development partners and the government need to help overcome, and the only way to show commitment in supporting the blind. “I have trained and worked with the blind people since 1989. The blind and other people with disability need sustainable support for their livelihood. For those with entrepreneur skills should be encouraged by buying their products and given space for working,” she said. She informed the “Daily News” that in efforts to help the blind who are engaged in weaving the doormats, she normally had to send a small number, about 45 pieces of different sizes parked in bags of 15 pieces (approx 23 kilogramme) to Sweden for sale. The amount collected, she said, helps to pay for the rent (450,000/=) for the room in houses owned by a church at Mkunazini, and portion of the money is used to pay people employed in making the doormats. She said smallest size of the doormat cost 25,000/= each at the local price, with some hotels ordering doormats with bigger size. It takes two-to-four years to buy another doormat, depending on the level of the use as for rough, gets worn-out quickly. Ms Karlsson said “My plea to the government and members of the society is to show that they really care for people living with disability by buying what they produce. Buy their products or order for, so that they make what you want because they have the skills.” She said the doormat makers and their colleagues run ‘Shangilia shop’ with financial difficulties just because the demand of their products is small, “they are unable to start other business or improve it. Having a permanent ‘business centre for people with disability’ is important.” Ms Karlsson retired from job in 2017 in her country, and she calls on the government and members of society to spare no efforts in ensuring that people with disability go to school, get opportunity to train and become entrepreneurs, and their products bought. Zanzibar government has a good policy that recognizes people with disability, and in several occasions authorities promise to ensure that the rights of vulnerable people are observed including fighting discrimination and stigmatization. The Minister of State- Vice president’s Office (responsible for people with disability) Mr Mohamed Aboud Mohamed says it is good and they are proud when people with disability are engaged in economic activities. Minister of ‘Labour, Empowerment, Elderly, Youth, Women and Children’ Ms Maudline Cyrus Castico says that when it comes to economical empowerment, loans, and skill building all people are equal, and those with disability are given priority. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities offers sufficient standards of protection for the civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights of persons with disabilities on the basis of inclusion, equality and non-discrimination. The Convention makes clear that persons with disabilities are entitled to live independently in their communities, to make their own choices and to play an active role in society.