PALEONTOLOGISTS say about 201.3 million years ago the world passed through a period which was dominated by gradual climate changes that caused fluctuation of sea levels, massive volcanic activities which released big amount of carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide into the air and asteroids attacks from the sky, for more than 10 thousands years these natural catastrophes killed least half of the species now known to have been living on Earth at that time. The extinction events opened the door for evolution of some terrestrial vertebrates which dominated the world from around 225 million years ago and effectively ruled the world before suddenly becoming extinct 160 million years later and this indicates that these mysterious creatures dominated the world for about 65 million years before nature pushed them into extinction about 66 million years ago. Meanwhile new discovery in Tanzania pushes the origin of dinosaurs back in time, discovered in southern Tanzania in the valley of Ruhuhu river, the dinosaur like creature lived some 243 million years ago. Scientists have discovered a new relative of the dinosaur in southern Tanzania which paleontologists say pushes back the origin of dinosaurs by at least 10 million years. The dinosaur like creature would have been waist high to a human, walked on four limbs, and was the closest relative to true dinosaurs. Discovered in southern Tanzania in the valley of Ruhuhu river the dinosaur like creature has been named asilisaurus kongwe and lived some 243 million years ago, this river is one of the main tributaries of lake Nyasa, the river rises in the Kipengere and Livingstone mountains south of Njombe and flows for about 160 kilometrers southwards to enter lake just south of Manda, these mountains form part of the eastern escarpment of the Great Rift valley in southern Tanzania. The deep valley of the Ruhuhu breaks the southward progression of these mountain rangers and fossil of Asilisaurus were excavated from the Manda beds, at the foot of the mountains, and closer to the mouth of the river. Details show fossil bones from at least 14 Asilisaurus specimens were recovered from the site and scientists were able to reconstruct a nearly complete skeleton, with only small portions of the head and hand missing and this indicates the animal stood half a metre to a metre 20 to 40 inches tall at the hips, and were one to three metres about three to five feet long. They weighed between 10 and 30kilogrammes, and walked on all four legs. The shape of the teeth and a beak like lower jaw suggest that the animals could eat meat or plants. scientist speculated that the animals were originally carnivores but evolved into omnivores to enhance their chances of survival. The names Asilisaurus kongwe comes from asili, which means origin in Swahili, sauros, the greek for lizard and kongwe Swahili for ancient, these ancient animals and dinosaurs lived side by side between 250 and 200 million years ago. While they did not persist as dinosaurs, these ancient animals are estimated to have lived on Earth for some 45 million years. The discovery therefore means that dinosaurs probably appeared much earlier than previously thought. It also points to a rich variety of fauna during the crucial period before dinosaur began their 165 million domination of the planet. The first specimen from these animals group was discovered only in 2003, but since then eight other specimens have been dug up from Triassic rock around the globe but Asilisaurus kongwe have been found only in Tanzania. Scientists say Asilisaurus Kongwe are the only close relative of dinosaurs discovered in Africa, are proto dinosaurs or dinosaur precursors and were most likely omnivore or herbivore, were more closely related to birds than to crocodilians, they stood on all four legs with their limbs positioned directly underneath their bodies, they had a relatively long neck and slender arms, had peg like teeth and the small beak like structure on the bottom jaw, suggesting that it had an omnivorous or herbivorous diet, with a very long tail they weighed between 10 to 30 kilogrammes. Paleontologist know dinosaurs belong to the archosaurus, within this group, the ancestors of dinosaur are divided into two main branches; a line that includes these prehistoric animals and shares skeletal feature with modern birds, and a line that has more in common with crocodilians, since a crocodilian dinosaur ancestor from the middle Triassic had already been found, unearthing an animal like Asilisaurus was a matter of time but vertebrate paleontologists think the new research goes beyond that, it is part of a large growing realization that the earliest archosaurs were far more diverse than we ever thought. In addition to finding Asilisaurus, other archosaur species have already been from the Ruhuhu valley, many more than in other archosaurs hot sports. It’s unknown why the lush, wet valley of prehistoric Tanzania produced so many strains of dinosaur relatives, paleontologists say. Whatever the reason, what we’re seeing here is a picture of a world in transition. It’s really a fascinating time in the history of life, parts of at least 12 Asilisaurus skeletons were found in 2007 in southern Tanzania’s Ruhuhu valley with no intact specimen to study, the study team had to piece together a composite skeleton. What emerged looked nothing like what paleontologists had imagined. Instead of resembling the typical hatchet –headed, blade-toothed shape of meant –eating dinosaur, Asilisaurus is a light, slender-limbed animal with peg-like teeth and as a small beak-like structure on its jaw. This shows that history of the world and creation of different landforms and creatures may not be written correctly without putting special attention to Tanzania, from being the cradle land of mankind, The United Republic of Tanzania is one of few places in the world which is believed to be the home of earliest creatures including Dinosaurs. Also historians and geologists say it is very interesting that unlike Olduvai gorge which is well known all over the world, Tendaguru a small village in Lindi rural district is one of the first places in the world were dinosaurs used to dwell, paleontologists say dinosaurs evolved on Earth more than 243 million years ago and managed to conquer rainforest and savannah when a mass extinction killed other creatures about 201 million years ago. Scientific researches indicate the southern part of Tanzania attracted dinosaurs from different parts of the world including Asilisaurus which evolved more than 244 million years ago, historians and scientists named this specie by using a Swahili name which indicates the original of dinosaurs in the world to be Tendaguru in southern Tanzania. Paleontologists say while floating between a single mega sea, Gondwana was a part of Pangaea a super continent which enabled dinosaurs to migrate from Colorado in the United State of America to Tendaguru in Tanzania searching for good pasture and rich hunting ground, about 175 million years ago, Pangaea the super continental started to breakup and triggered the beginning of the end of these mega fauna of the ancient world. In what is known among scientists as continental drift, an ancient sea called Panthalassa which surrounded Pangaea was divided into two parts to form modern Pacific Ocean. Paleontologists say the process of continental drift takes very long time, this means before a total breakup Pangaea passed through three different stages. The first stage involved the emerging of Gondwana which started more than 570 million years ago, second stage is when Gondwana became part of Pangaea for not less than 300 million years before crushing it and became a super continent from about 180 million years ago. The creation of Gondwana started the long process of taking dinosaurs out of the world to allow evolution of other creatures including ancestors of modern mammals. Scientists say about 175 million years ago volcanic activities on the Earth’s crust crushed Gondwana to form the modern continents. This means that the seven new continents came with different water bodies which blocked migration of dinosaurs from one part to another in a new and small environment. The continental drift which happened about 175 million years ago forced some to stay in one place, others were hunted to extinction but most dinosaurs lost grazing and nestling ground. Scientists say volcanic eruptions and asteroid attacks killed all dinosaurs on the Earth’s surface about 66 million years ago and opened doors for humans and other mammals to rule the world. rstanslaus@yahoo.com”