WORLD Kabaddi body claims to have grown up considerably since its formation on March 24, 2018, despite facing some hiccups in the last two years. According to the e-newsletter unveiled this week by Tanzania Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) and its chairman Abdullah Nyoni sent to the ‘Sunday News’, the World Kabaddi governing body shows that within short time, they have managed to conduct inaugural World Cup, albeit a smaller than originally envisioned in 2019. They have also conducted the Africa Cup and the European Championships successfully. Tanzania has been given the honour to host this year African Cup Championship for the first time in the history later this year. Ashok Das, the President of World Kabaddi said in the report that they have reviewed and adopted more comprehensive rules of Kabaddi from all three formats of the game — Circle, Beach and National Style. And also came out with the World Ranking System for the first time, although its full implementation may take some time. “We also have named March 24th as the World Kabaddi Day. This year’s celebrations had to be cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Because of this, we created the online poll in conjunction with the World Kabaddi Day to pick and honour the kabaddi family throughout the world,” he added. During the 2019 Sports Personalities poll conducted in March national team this year Tanzanian team captain Joseph Lusinde and Nasra Mkima were awarded the country’s Male and Female Best Players of the year, while the late Abhayraj Singh was named the country’s best coach. Das, however, said that they are starting own online seminar to assist members to gain more knowledge of the game. “We are in the midst of planning for a stronger kabaddi promotion and development in all corners of the world,” added Das. Though, he said, they still think they have a long journey ahead because they have yet to achieve much of the milestones set out in the 10-year Strategic Plan. He said they believe that to achieve success they need the cooperation and support of member nations as well as partners. “In the coming months, we hope to forge partnerships with sponsors, broadcasters and organisations to take this sport to a higher level.”