RURAL Energy Agency (REA) Acting Director General, Eng Amos Maganga, has terminated the contract of M/s Urban and Rural Engineering Services Ltd for failure to complete on time Rural Electrification Project Phase Three, Round One in Western Zone. Speaking during evaluation of the implementation of the project which is supposed to be handed over by June 30 this year, Eng Maganga said the termination puts the contractor on the black list of companies that will warrant tender in future. “If we gave you a tender worth billions of shillings and you fail to complete it as per the agreement and we are forced to give the job to another company, you must count yourself out of REA circles because you have failed us,” he insisted. During the evaluation meeting held in Tabora, Eng Maganga called on the contractors of the rural electrification projects to honor the terms of agreement because they fail the country’s industrial drive by delaying to provide power to the intended villages. “I have terminated contracts with two contractors in Mwanza and Kigoma after being satisfied that they have failed to deliver as per the contract details, because they were supposed to hand over a complete project by the end of this month,” said Eng Maganga. The Acting Director General said they will give the contract to competent and efficient companies which will implement the projects within one or two months instead of leaving the tender to the failed companies. He maintained that they will keep on terminating contracts with contractors of the Rural Electrification Project Phase Three, Round One so that the government goals are reached as intended. The M/S Urban and Rural Engineering Services Limited was given the project in Kakonko and Kibondo districts in Kigoma regions, but evaluation details shows that they have connected ten out of 69 villages under the contract. Also, the Medium Voltage Stringing is 61.9 kilometers instead of 385.1 kilometers, while the Low Voltage stringing is 22.2 out of 325.8 kilometers. Transformers installed are ten pieces out of 156 under the contract, while customers connected are 381 out of 5,766, while combined progress is 42.41 per cent and progress of the Addendum is 11.13 percent.