ONE of very important scripture states that in the beginning when GOD created the heavens and the Earth, this announcement did not indicate time of creation but according to the big bang theory of the evolution about 12 or 10 billion years ago through explosion atoms were formed then 9 billion years ago after cooling they resulted into the existence of the universe. This situation enabled formation of the Sun about 4.6 billion years ago after what scientists call gravitational collapse of matter within a region of a giant interstellar molecular cloud, furthermore it is stated that most of these matters gathered in the center, while the rest flattened into an orbiting disk where they became what is called the Solar System. Some scientists say the formation of the solar system took some time and it was completed about 4.6 billion years ago when majority of scattered matters accumulated to form Jupiter while the four smaller inner or terrestrial planets consisting of Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars were formed between 4.6 and 4.5 billion years ago. Terrestrial planets are made by rocks and metals while the outer planets four are giant planets, this means that they are significantly more massive than the terrestrials, with the two largest Jupiter and Saturn being called gas giants because they are made by hydrogen and helium. In order for life existence, the Earth’s mass is composed of other elements by 1.2%, magnesium 13.9%, sulfur 2.9%, nickel 1.8%, calcium1.5%, aluminium1.4%, silicon 15.1%, iron by 32.1% and oxygen by 30.1% which is the third-most abundant element in the universe and play an important role in the photosynthesis and respiration processes. Scientists believe that chemical reaction led to the replicating molecules which enabled the evolution of photosynthesis which allowed the Suns energy to be collected directly by form of life that existed in the ancient world. Fossil records show that there was some existence of life on the ancient world when a single cell organism appeared in the sea about 4 billion years ago before the rose of what is called the last common ancestor about 3.7 billion years ago, and allowed some ancient plants to start using photosynthesis to produce their own food. Different scientific researches indicate these ancient plants appeared about 3.5 billion years ago but there was some development about 2.1 billion years ago during the diversification of blue green algae. Scientists say different fossils indicate that most ancient plants evolved about 1.2 billion years ago from single celled algae and during the primitive process of photosynthesis these prehistoric creatures used water as a reducing agent to produce oxygen as their byproduct. With that marvelous ability the green algae thrived and conquered ancient water bodies and about 434 million years ago those which stationed themselves on the sea shores evolved into a primitive plant and migrated into the land side by side with fungus. Before that about 485 million years ago a jawless fish evolved into the sea and become one of the first vertebrate animals in the world, then they were followed by an ancient generation of ray finned fishes which together with other big fishes they ruled this planet from 419 to 359 million years ago. Earlier from 369 million years ago the world witnessed the formation of earliest mountains due to volcanic activities which affected topography of the prehistoric super continents, on the other side this influenced the average temperature and the planet experienced a long period without tropical climates. Scientists say the situation happened because between 410 and 359 million years ago the planet had 21.8 hours due to fast rotation which made 400 days of a year that was characterized by stronger winds which blocked development of forest until about 350 million years ago when climate changed and allowed the thriving of earliest land plants. These primitive plants included huge trees with strong roots which were capable of penetrating deep into the ground after tearing apart rocks to produce soil that supported the growth of ancient some flowering plants such as lichen. Scientists say the first seed plant appeared about 340 million years ago and triggered the flourishing of the ancient forests in different parts of the world, the existence of both flowering and seed plants enabled a smooth evolution of arthropods about 319 million years ago. From about 360 million years ago seed plant spread into different ecosystem and become source of food for different olden animals, birds and insects. At the same time the external skeleton animals made a massive rebound about 360 million years ago when the first crab crawled into the water thanks to the initial steps of evolution of arthropods which happened about 550 million years ago. Meanwhile geologists say after the disintegration of others, about 300 million years ago Pangaea remained one super continent on planet Earth which experienced long hot and dry seasons but in some areas such as north and south poles with absence of glaciation this kind of climate created humid condition which provided suitable condition for expansion of forest and triggered evolution of first generation of vertebrates such as reptiles. Scientists estimate that the first generation of reptiles evolved between 320 and 310 million years ago, this group was later dominated by dinosaurs which paleontologists say they evolved on Earth more than 243 million years ago and managed to conquer rainforest and savannah when a mass extinction killed other creatures about 201 million years ago. Different scientific researches indicate that from about 244 million the southern part of Tanzania harbored Asilisaurus which was followed by Nyasasaurus another specie of dinosaur that evolved in Tendaguru about 243 million years ago and these giants managed to conquer the whole area which today is occupied by regions such as Rukwa, Katavi, Mtwara, Lindi, Songea, Songwe and Mbeya. These ancient reptiles thrived because they managed to overcome different challenges as they developed a habit of eating every plants and animal at their disposal. Different researches indicate that regardless of their enormous size, all species of dinosaurs shared on one feature of laying an egg which was incubated in a nest, these were amniotic eggs had very hard shells which enabled them to survive in different tough situation. Unlike bird’s eggs, amniotic eggs had special mechanism which was designed to enable the development of an embryo without the assistance of parents and the sex of the offspring would be determined by the amount of temperature of the surroundings. By using geometric properties of eggs from 250 million years ago scientist say compared to modern birds few dinosaurs incubated their eggs for a long time with hatchlings being smaller and need more time to reach adulthood size, this slow, long and delicate reproductive procedure contributed into their extinction 66 million years ago. Before that, this ability breeding through an egg enabled dinosaurs to conquer the world for about 160 million until about 175 million years ago when Pangaea the super continental started to breakup and triggered the beginning of the end of these mega fauna of the earliest world. At the same time the world’s history shows that mammals evolved on the Earth about 320 million years ago but they were less known to other creatures until 250 million years ago when a mass extinction event killed 70% of vertebrates. From an egg laying mammal, evolution of this group passed different stages but from those days to date their offspring start life without teeth to cut or grind food stuffs. Scientists say different fossils records show that mammals evolved into their full stage about 170 million years ago when they acquired a placenta which helps them to carry, protect and feed the embryo inside their bodies. Meanwhile some paleontologists say earliest mammals developed their jaws about 201.3 million years ago when conifers forest dominated the world and from about 200 million years ago from an egg which was laid in water a common ancestor of all mammals evolved with more features. At the same time the ancient world’s huge forests became source of food and home to million creatures include the dinosaurs who dwelled on Earth for the first time more than 200 million years ago and conquered it for about 160 million before a long period of volcanic activities pushed them into extinction about 66 million years ago. Scientists say the extinction process was slow going stage after stages but by wiping off most of these prehistoric giants the Earth opened its land to be inhabited by new creatures, these were the ancestors of modern birds which appeared about 150 million years ago after evolving from Theropod dinosaurs. Scientists continue to say some species of aquatic birds and great ancestor of modern Cormorants dwelled on the Earth’s surface about 120 million years ago after they managed to escape extinction. This was only possible when they started using eggs which were elongated and more symmetric than all other birds’ eggs but today cormorant lay eggs which are chalky blue in colour as special strategies to hide them against predators as they are incubated on trees, rock islets and cliffs. Scientists say unlike modern ones, most of eggs of those days had ordinary size but were more porous a primary condition which allowed the exchange of adequate gas in hash condition. This factor played an important role to the evolution of birds and reptiles at the time when the Earth was going through a dramatic climate changes which forced some creatures into extinction. That was a crucial stage of evolution process which enabled some clever birds to bury their eggs in ground to protect them from volcanic activities which were blowing up from inner core as asteroids from the sky pounded its surface repeatedly. At the same time about 220 million years ago the seed producing plants evolved into the world and made huge forests in different parts of the ancient super continent, that did not last longer because about 180 million years ago the world started to move against dinosaurs. rstanslaus@yahoo.com Mobile: 0754362330