National cricket team has stepped out to training on Monday as part of preparations for ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Africa Qualifier that was earlier scheduled to be staged from April 25th to May 4th this year. All sports activities were suspended worldwide since mid-March this year due to the coronavirus scare. The outbreak also forced the World Health Organization (WHO) to call all member states and sports associations to take necessary measures to avoid the spread of the deadly virus. However it was not clear when the ICC T2O qualifiers will resume, but the drastic decease in number of coronavirus cases in Tanzania has given cricket governing body hopes the situation will be also better globally. After his first training with the national team, Head Coach, Steve Tikolo expressed how delighted he was to see his boys back for training. “I am glad we have returned to the training, we are waiting for the International Cricket Council (ICC) to announce when the new dates of the T20 qualifiers. “We will look at their fitness, if there are any weakness we shall work on them. To those who have fitness issues we shall enforce them with a programme to improve their fitness.” “So far, for the session we had, the boys are doing well and I am impressed with their form. Right now we are sharpening on the batting and bowling techniques.” According to the Tanzania Cricket Association Communication (TCA) officer, Atif Salim, the practice has resumed in the groups of 3 to 4 players at different intervals. “Coach has divided the players into group of 2 or 3 players in line with the rule of social distancing. And because of the numbers of players who are engaged in it, each player will at least have 3 sessions in a week where we will work on playing skills and fitness.” The training sessions will be conducted from Monday to Friday. A national team player, Mohammed Omari, expressed how he was delighted to see cricket resume and he hoped to improve his fitness as it has been before the hiatus. “Our bodies have become heavy, since we haven’t had intensive training for about two months that is too long for a player.”