PRESIDENT John Magufuli has showered praise on the outgoing Zanzibar President, Dr Ali Mohammed Shein for his outstanding leadership. The President described Dr Shein as a great leader who displayed remarkable leadership qualities in serving the country; eight years as the Union Vice President of Tanzania and almost ten years now as Zanzibar President. Addressing the National Assembly on Tuesday in Dodoma, President Magufuli apparently suggested that Dr Shein will enter the country’s history books for his priceless contribution in national development. He said like other retired presidents and top government officials, Dr Shein will forever be honoured. “Dr Shein you have done the work. You deserve to go and have a rest. I wish you all the best.” Dr Magufuli said as Dr Shein, who will retire at the end of his second term in office later this year, nodded. Records show that Dr Shein started his political career when he contested the Mkanyageni House of Representative seat in 1995 general elections. On 29 October 1995 he was nominated Member of the House of Representatives and appointed as Zanzibar’s Deputy Minister of Health on November 13. He was elected Member of the National Executive Committee of Chama cha Mapinduzi - NEC in 1997 and remained a member to date. He won the Mkanyageni constituency in general election held on 6th November 2000 and became Member of the Zanzibar House of Representatives. He was appointed Minister of State in the President’s Office Responsible for Constitutional Affairs and Good Governance on 22nd November 2000. Dr Shein was appointed Vice President by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania on 13th July 2001 and since then he has been a member of the CCM Central Committee. By virtue of his position, he was appointed to the CCM Central Committee in 2005 to date. When the ruling party presidential candidate won the 2005 general elections, being the running- mate, he was elected Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania and was swornin on 21st December 2005. He contested the Zanzibar 2010 Presidential Election and was elected President on 31st October 2010. He was sworn in as the President of Zanzibar and Chairman of the Revolutionary Council on 3rd November 2010. He became Chancellor of the State University of Zanzibar (SUZA) on 29th March, 2011. In 2016, Dr Shein was re-elected for a second term. And per the country’s constitution, the highly-disciplined politician-cum-medical doctor will be stepping down with honours having presided over massive socioeconomic progresses in the Indian Ocean semi-autonomous archipelago.