“Recent world events have seen the curtailment of live sport around the globe, and even as we commit to maintain the entertainment with the chance to ‘ReLive’ classic matches, documentaries and the greatest sports films of all time, we know that nothing beats real time sports action, so we welcome the return of live sports to our screens,” says Jacqueline Woiso, MultiChoice Tanzania Managing Director. Jacqueline told the Daily News on Thursday that this new month has come with great news for DStv customers who are sport fanatics, following a couple of months of limited sporting events due to the COVID-19 pandemic and thus things are slowly starting to get back to normal around the world and the amount of live action available to SuperSport viewers on DStv will increase significantly this month. “For football fans, this includes the resumption of three major European leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga and Serie A …All  the three confirmed their restart dates last week, with Spain’s La Liga the first to return to SuperSport screens on the evening of Thursday 11 June with the Seville derby of Sevilla v Real Betis. A further nine fixtures to complete a full round will be played over the weekend of 12-14 June,” the director explained. With this return of live broadcasting, La Liga fans are likely to observe the titanic title tussle between Barcelona and Real Madrid, with just two points separating the teams at the top of the log. “Los Blancos  (Real Madrid) appeared to have more momentum behind them, having beaten Barca in Madrid in early March before the league was suspended, but the break has since allowed the Catalans to regroup and recover from a major spate of injuries and so much will be on SuperSport for the fans,” said Jacquiline. On the planned return of the live games on DStv, fans will also be able see a catch-up fixtures, where Manchester City  will take Arsenal while  Mbwana Samatta’s side Aston Villa will battle Sheffield United on Wednesday 17 June, before a first full round of fixtures running from Friday 19 to Monday 22 June. On the other end, all eyes will be on leaders Liverpool, who only need two more wins in order to be crowned 2019/2020 champions, their first top-flight championship in 30 years. Their first game back will be away against city rivals Everton (with the match possibly set to be played at a neutral venue) depending on the result of Manchester City’s earlier matches, the Reds could clinch the title with victory against their cross-town rivals! Meanwhile at the Italy’s Serie A, it will also resume on the weekend of 19-21 June, and bring with it one of the most thrilling title races anywhere in Europe. Champions Juventus hold a one-point lead over nearest chasers Lazio, who have become one of the most entertaining and effective teams in the Italian top flight. Inter Milan are also on the fringes of the title race and could bring themselves back into contention if they win their game in hand. OTHER SPORTS And football is not the only sport which will be returning live to SuperSport, in the coming days and weeks: Rugby will also make a comeback with New Zealand’s domestic Aotearoa on the weekend of 13-14 June (the Highlanders take on the Chiefs and the Blues host the Hurricanes), golf’s PGA Tour will hold the Charles Schwab Challenge from 11 to 14 June, and even IAAF Athletics is back on the calendar with the Oslo Impossible Games on 11 June. There’s also horse racing (the Investec Coronation Cup on Friday 5 June), IndyCar (the Genesys 600 on Sunday 7 June) and the continuation of series which have already been holding live events through these troubled times, including UFC 250 (Sunday 7 June), the NASCAR Cup (7, 11 and 14 June) and WWE’s latest pay-per-view special, ‘Backlash’ on Monday 15 June.