TANZANIA Cricket Association (TCA), is set to resume development programmes in schools as part of promoting and enhancing cricket in the country from the grassroots level. In order to achieve this goal, TCA held a three-day workshop at Muhimbili Cricket Academy involving 14 regional development officers, who will take responsibility in administering the programme. The Entry Level Cricket Programme workshop took place from last Friday and ended on Monday. It drew at least 14 development officers form five regions Mwanza, Dodoma, Arusha, Tanga and Morogoro. “The workshop was conducted under the TCA Development programme,” said TCA Communication Officer, Atif Salim. “These officers were trained to train the school sports teachers in their respective areas. They will train them so that each school has an independent cricket programme.” Mwanza was represented by Onesmo Kagimbo and John Nyambo; Dodoma represented by Benson Mwita and Nikolas Achimpota; Arusha represented by Shabani Ramadhani, Nasibu Kelvin and Priscus Silayo. Tanga was represented by Riziki Kiseto, and Ally Sharifu and for Morogoro it was represented by Majidi Muhidini, Kibwana Salum, Seif Khalifa, Robert Kadazima and Masumbuko Kasimu. He also added that, the programme will involve District Sports Officers, who will directly involve sports teachers from each school that the programme will run. Salim said the programme expects to begin soon after Primary Schools reopen. “This programme will involve the District Sports officers who will monitor and ensure there is an involvement and performance of their sports teachers in their respective schools under their district.” “TCA strategy is to increase the number of players at the grass root level and will monitor the progress by tracking the performances with the cooperation of the local municipal council,” he said. After the workshop was conducted, the TCA management has made it aware of the plans to hold another workshop for Dar es Salaam Development Officers. “We will conduct another workshop for Dar es Salaam Development Officers, we have not confirmed the date yet but we will notify the stakeholders soon,” said Salim. He said cricket like any other sport requires a lot of young people to ensure its growth. By investing in young people, Salim said it creates a generation that understand and love the sport. Also, to support cricket activities, TCA management had been working in the upgrading of playing grounds.