THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) is holding four senior officials of the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) and one officer of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism on various corruption allegations. NEMC officials who are under custody include three environmental officers namely; Deusdedit Katwale, Magori Matiku, Obadia Machupa and Lydia Nyinondi, who is an Assistant Accountant. According to a statement released by PCCB’s Public Relations Officer, Ms Doreen Kapwani, the suspects have been probed on various allegations including organising crime, forgery, submitting forged documents, causing loss to the council, abuse of office and money laundering. “Investigation into their matters has been completed and PCCB in collaboration with the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), will tomorrow (Today), bring the suspects to court for them to face their charges,” read the statement. The statement named the official from the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism under arrest as Eliud Kijalo.  He is alleged to have embezzled over 4bn/-. This comes barely a day after the anti-graft agency announced to hold the former Director General of Medical Stores Department (MSD), Mr Laurean Bwanakunu and the acting Director of logistics Mr Byekwaso Tabura over the alleged misuse of office. According to a statement issued on Tuesday, the duos are under PCCB’s custody at Upanga area in Dar es Salaam, effectively from June 2, 2020 to pave the way for investigation into the matter. Mr Bwanakunu has served as the boss of MSD for four years and 11 months since he was appointed by former president Dr Jakaya Kikwete on June 23, 2015. Prior to his appointment, he was the Executive Director of Ariel Glaser Paediatric AIDS Healthcare Initiative (AGPAHI). On May 3 this year, President John Magufuli revoked Mr Bwanakunu’s appointment at MSD and replaced him with Brig Gen Dr Gabriel Mhidize who prior to his new role, he was the head of Dar es Salaam-based Lugalo military hospital.