SIMBA SC defender, Pascal Wawa has predicted a tough duel against Azam FC in the quarterfinals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), on July 1st at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The two teams meet for the third time this season after facing twice in the top flight league which saw Simba winning both encounters. Simba claimed a narrow 1-0  win in the first encounter before claiming a 3-2 win in the second  match, both results making a possible tough game on July 1st. However, speaking recently, Wawa said he is aware that the encounter will be tough since Azam is one of the good teams in the country. "Whenever we face Azam, the game is usually difficult as the two sides know each other very well, but we will play our cards well to win and progress into the semi-finals," Wawa said. On the other hand, the Ivorian centre back revealed that his hard work during training sessions and games are the qualities which compel every coach who land at the club to include him in his plans. "Total commitment and adhering to coach’s instructions are the basic things which enable me to flourish at the club in all the seasons I have been there," said him. He also remarked that most of the strikers who play in the Mainland Premier League have big potential and usually give him tough moments during matches. The management of Simba, through its Information Officer, Haji Manara, has already pointed out that their sole target this season,  is to win both the top flight league and ASFC titles. Nevertheless, Simba will be in league action on June 14th hosting Ruvu Shooting at the National Stadium in the city and a victory will see them haul 74 points from 29 games. Lately, the Msimbazi Street side continue to command the league run with 71 points from 28 matches and are the hot candidates to retain the season's title. Their opponents, Ruvu Shooting are placed 11th  on the log with 39 points and are too, desperate to pocket vital three points to keep ascending to the top of the table and avoid relegation.