BUSINESS Registration and licensing Agency (BRELA), has urged all government business officers in the country to sensitize people to start businesses and establish small, medium and large industries. The call was made by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Godfrey Nyaisa when speaking during the opening of the one week seminar with business officers from different regions, held at the agency’s headquarters in Dar es Salaam. Mr Nyaisa said the organisation plans to have regular capacity building seminars with business officers all over the country so that they can take charge of all activities that was done by the institute as a measure to reduce operation cost. He said business officers in the country must build friendly environment with business community something that will enable them to work to gather and make the easiest way to archive their goals. “It was common during past days for business people to fear government business officers when they pass across their business areas. “We must change that attitude and create friendly environment because we are partners,” he said. The CEO said business officers apart from sensitizing people to open and run business they are required to find different market inside and outside the county for the produce in order to attract more Tanzanians to join business sector.  He said that BRELA officers will teach them among other things, how to register new business, to update information, to register factory and to get class A and B Licenses.  Mr Nyaisa said the institution has distributed ICT facilities to different district councils to enable their officials to use the facility to register business electronically starting with Ilala in Dar es Salaam, Chalinze Coast Region and Mwanza.  Mr Nyaisa said after putting new systems and revolution done within a very short time everything is smooth hence quelling a number if complains. “We want people to get their registration certificate on time to avoid unnecessary complains…because we are very strict,” he said