THE fifth phase government has implemented various development projects in the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs over the five-year period from 2016/17 to 2019/20, of which over 50bn/- has been spent. According to a report on the implementation of development projects for 2016/17-2019/20 released yesterday, out of the money used includes 32,497,365,121/52, as local funds and 18,666,795,784/40 from development partners. Such projects include strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs for women rights legal review and institutionalising a response to violence against women in the legal sector with a view to preventing violent acts against women and children. In this project, 380,587,770/28 funds from development partners were used to prepare and submit a quarterly report on the implementation of the National Anti-Violence Action Plan (2017/17-2021/22). Another task is the preparation of proposals for the strengthening of women and children’s rights protection systems that will be included in the new National Human Rights Action Plan 2018/19-2023/24. There are also preparations for the Code of the Legal Aid Act as one of the government’s measures to eradicate violence against women and children and create a society based on universal justice and gender equality. Analysis of various laws governing the affairs of women and girls and to propose measures to remedy shortcomings was also done. Furthermore a statement on the assessment of the needs of justice officers (judges, state attorneys, social welfare officers and police officers) dealing with issues of sexual violence is being prepared. Another task implemented in this project is the completion of a review of various laws, regulations and guidelines governing women’s issues and commenting on the shortcomings. There was a project to strengthen human rights and the protection of human rights with the aim of having justice and human rights’ protection systems for women and special groups, of which 228,239,698/40 from development partners was spent. The funds were used to develop an integrated system for collecting, analysing and storing important data and information on criminal justice. There was also the dissemination of proposals adopted by the United Republic of Tanzania at the 33rd session of the Human Rights Council under the United Nations system of review for a specific period. A review of the draft of the state’s report on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of 2006 and compiled the guide for providing legal aid to inmates and detainees. There were also preparations for the five-year plan of implementation of the Care Act Legal Aid (2017) and its Regulations of 2018 and providing training guiding 139 assistant registrars of legal service providers from eight regions of Mbeya, Singida, Mwanza, Simiyu, Arusha, Tanga, Lindi and Kigoma. Another implementation is the establishment of an online legal aid registration system as well as monitoring their performance and 50,000 citizens were provided with legal support services on the days of the week of the legal aid service. Another project is the National Human Rights Action Plan (NHRAP) 2018-2022 with the aim of putting in place a system of monitoring information on human rights and the collection of statistics, where 514,480,000/- external funds were spent on various tasks. There is a project of e-justice aimed at using information communication technology (ICT) to strengthen justice systems to speed up access to justice which was implemented and 605,441,000/- was spent on the introduction of a database of all lawyers in the public service. Another work done for the project was to continue with the construction of the ICT infrastructure of the ministry’s head office and further strengthening of the use of the technology in the provision of legal services through the improvement of the judicial statistical dashbord system. Another project implemented is the building of sustainable anti-corruption action in Tanzania (BSAAT) with a view to eliminating corruption in the justice system and the fight against poverty. A total of 572,653,607/- from development partners was used to analyse the existing criminal justice system and assess its shortcomings in the administration of justice and its contribution to corruption gaps that lead to poverty in the country and prepare proposals to the criminal justice system that meets present and future needs with no loopholes of corruption. The construction of hostels for male students at the Judicial College (IJA) was another project implemented during the period aimed at improving accommodation and raising the profession where 1,300,086,777/52 domestic funds were used at the Lushoto-based college. There was also a project for the registration of children under five for the purposed registration of all children under the age of five in Mainland Tanzania of which 79,302,000/- from internal sources was spent on various development activities. Some of activities are the registration of 5,665,411 generations in the regions of Mwanza, Mbeya, Songwe, Iringa, Njombe, Shinyanga, Geita, Lindi, Mtwara, Mara and Simiyu and increased the enrolment rate for children of the relevant group from 13 per cent in 2012 to 38 per cent in 2018. There is a project for the registration of students aged five to 17 years old who were not registered and 709,482,000/- from internal sources was spent. The funds were used to provide public education, mentoring seminars and registration training for district leaders of Bariadi, Tarime, Singida, Ilala, Kinondoni, Temeke, Ubungo, Kigamboni, Iringa Urban, Kilindi, Ludewa, Njombe, Makete, Wang’ombe and Musoma. Other activities are the enrolment of 320,208,011 generations in the districts and purchase of registration materials (forms and certificates) as well as paying for the cost of a certification centre. The birth and death registration system using ICT was another project implemented to improve birth and death registration using ICT, whereby 220,871,920/- from internal sources and 14,561,638,189/- from internal sources was spent on various activities. These activities include the launch of a new electronic system for the registration of births and deaths, installation and implementation of this new system at 150 centres. There was also the launch of a database system and approximately one million records that were previously on paperwork have been archived, thus simplifying its access to various applications and registration totalling 142,617 generations and 4,962 deaths. There was also the improvement of the database of registration of the Registration, Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA) headquarters and initiated discussions on requests for the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), the Social Security Fund Authority (SSFA) and the Tanzania Social Action Fund (Tasaf) regarding the integration of their systems into the new RITA generation registration system. The process of exchanging information has been piloted. The agency has also provided numbers for the registration and renewal of the voter’s register to the National Electoral Commission (NEC), which is specifically for those who turned 18 years old and for those who did not have a voting card for preparations of the 2020 forthcoming election. Another project of enhancing access to legal rights and the protection of human rights in Tanzania was also implemented with a view to enhancing access to justice and the protection of human rights in the country and 199,880,908/- from development partners was spent. The tasks implemented are the completion of the preparations of the Commission’s Five Year Strategic Plan 2018/19-2022/23, (CHRAGG Strategic Plan), the Stakeholders Engagement Strategy, the Communication and Visibility Strategy and Training Plan. There was also the finalisation of the Commission’s Partnership Agreement in monitoring and reporting on human rights issues and the Commission has resolved land disputes in Same, Liwale and Handeni districts and strengthened peace and harmony between investors, citizens and the government. Strengthening the fundamentals of access to legal rights and access to human rights at low levels especially for women is another project implemented to increase access to legal rights and human rights advocacy in society, especially to women at the grassroots. A total of 442,635,000/- from external sources was spent on project implementation in 39 district councils in five regions of Mtwara, Mara, Shinyanga, Mbeya and Manyara. It also builds the capacity of the 870 staff of councils at district and ward levels in issues of access to justice and human rights advocacy with the aim of providing such education to executives at village level and to all citizens. Another project is the judicial service improvement programme in improving court infrastructure at various levels and 28,582,181,424/- in local funds was spent on the construction of Bagamaoyo, Ilala, Kigamboni and Mkuranga district courts. The construction of the High Court in Kigoma Region is underway and the construction of a Mara Court building has been completed. The construction of the Resident Magistrates’ Courts in Geita, Njombe, Katavi, Simiyu and Lindi regions as well as 16 district courts is underway and the construction of eight primary courts has been completed. Another project is the construction of the Attorney General’s Office at Mtumba in Dodoma to reduce rental costs has also been implemented and 1bn/- has been spent and construction has been completed.