THE Parliamentary budget oversight committee has lauded the government for its development –oriented budget but called for deepening engagement with the private sector in executing its development agenda during the fiscal year 2020/21. The second phase of the national five year development plan is coming to an end. Under the plan, the private sector was anticipated to contribute at least 48trn/- and with the government adding 59trn/-, the committee says there has been a challenge in obtaining actual figures from private partners. Mashamba Ndaki, the Chairman of the Parliamentary Budget Committee presenting the committee’s opinion over the national budget tabled on Thursday in Dodoma, said the committee was impressed with the new budget “but work has to be done to im- prove the involvement with the private sector.” The private sector is a larger contributor to the country’s national income. It can play a vital role in increasing gross domestic saving and gross domestic capital for the economy. However, Mr Ndaki says alternatively, the State should adopt a self-declaration option to allow the interested parties self-declare expected investments in existing or proposed development projects. “These statistics can be of prominence to the State in planning and implementing various development projects,” he said. At the centre of the debate the committee had been concerned with the influx of goods and products in the local markets that are either substandard or fake - mostly likely to be imported illegally. It said such commodities have serious health and economic impacts that directly affect nationals, especially the ordinary farmers, pastoralists and entrepreneurs. President John Magufuli’s administration is implementing a business blueprint which has seen massive removal or reduction in fees, levies and charges. This decision has been under the waiting list of the private sector for many years so it can be able to increase its contribution to the national economy. “The committee advised the government to only adopt fees, levies and charges that do not disturb or paralyze private sector’s performance,” he said. Presenting the national budget on Thursday, Finance and Planning Minister Dr Phillip Mpango said the government was moving ahead with implementing its strategic projects such as infrastructures (railway, airports, energy and water) in its bid to improve social-economic services. The committee said following its review of the proposed budget, it was convinced that the new budget targets to spur social and economic development. “The changes targets to stimulate key economic sectors such as industries, agriculture and services, yet increasing income to workers. “This budget has considered the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the economy and has also set commitments for the forthcoming general election,” said Mr Ndaki. Nevertheless, the committee said it was impressed with the government’s move to advance the use of technology in revenue collections. The committee emphasized that use of ICT in public spending will cut overspending, increase efficiency and promote transparency.