SENIOR University Lecturer, Dr Azaveli Lwaitama, and other participants have described the Islamic Revolutionary leader in Iran, Imam Ayatollah Khomeini, as a man who stood for love, justice and democracy and was against any form of depravations Speaking at the 31st Anniversary of the death of Imam Khomeini held virtually from Iranian Cultural Center in Tanzania, Dr Lwaitama noted that what he could learn from him was that he gave up his entire life and focused on human liberation using Iran's Islamic culture approach in human liberation. “The liberation from the oppression of the environment, the oppression of the world and the way it was created. Every human being finds himself detained, restricted, something that took him to a scientific revolution,” said the Senior Lecturer of English and Communication Skills. Dr Lwaitama from the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at the University of Dar es Salaam pointed out that Imam Khomeini urged that human beings were not born to play, that is why they do scientific revolution and have been making changes, including the scientific revolution. According to him, there is a place where a person finds his political freedom restricted by dictatorial systems, the system of one person being exalted as if he were a God, one person having all decisions. “The Iranian State you see today with a vision of purposeful, visionary but still competitive. The election presided by Imam Khomein is of political competition, but its boundaries are not designed to depend on one person,” the senior academician pointed out. On his part, Sheikh Musabah Shabani said that the depravation of legal, social-economical and political rights are among the criticisms of former Islamic Revolutionary leader in Iran, Imam Ayatollah Khomeini. "Imam Khomeini viewed that in all aspects, no one should be deprived his/her rights, but even the intrusion of one’s thoughts that someone wants, in his views, for example when African countries were fighting coronavirus. Our countries should have rights to decide for themselves, “he said. In his contributions, a senior Journalist from Radio Swahili Channel, Teheran in Iran, Al-Muhtaram Bendera, pointed out that his political analysis could see how Imam Khomeini was a favorite of the people and he did not have any luxurious personalities.