WHEN little Mahadia Tunga and her fellow pupils played together at Forodhani Primary School in Ilala district of Dar es Salaam region in 1990s, little did she know that at the turn of the century, her name will hit media headlines because of her efforts on using data science approach to contribute to the development of Tanzania and beyond. Mahadia is a data scientist.  Data science is a field of science that uses scientific methods to reveal insights and knowledge from data. Simply put, a data scientist is therefore a person who can efficiently communicate insights and knowledge from data to inform or drive change. A wife and a mother of three, Mahadia believes that data science can spur Tanzania’s development. She notes that in a country like Tanzania where there are multiple economic challenges, there are always competing priorities, and in that kind of situation, there is no trying, there is doing,” she explains.  That is where data science comes in with the ability to understand and analyze the data and suggest what to be done. Giving an example, she says if it is agriculture, a data scientist should be able to tell when someone should invest, what the market trend is, and how it will look like in the next few months or years. According to an article titled: ‘Data Science is changing the world for the Better: Here’s How’ published in the inside BIGDATA newsletter on April 14, 2020, “the impact of data science reaches far beyond the business sector, and is helping to solve some of mankind’s most pressing issues.” According to the article, data science is now used from preventing blindness and treating drug and alcohol addiction and fighting poverty to combating global warming. Using a vast trove of data, for example, an Artificial Intelligence (AI) system called IDx-DR is being used to identify signs of diabetic retinopathy, a preventive condition which is rarely caught early enough in a matter of minutes, without the need for a clinician. Similar systems, according to the information in the newsletter, have also been developed to identify age-related macular degeneration and glaucoma. Because of the potentials of the data science, Mahadia says there is a need to integrate data skills at the lower levels of trainings. “We should equip more people with data skills at lower level of education, the same way we do with higher levels, such as post graduates,” she notes, adding that investing in lower levels will have high impact in the future by creating a pipeline of good data scientists. Mahadia holds a Bachelor and Master’s degree in computer science from University of Dar es salaam (UDSM). As an Assistant Lecturer at the UDSM, she has widely participated in the development of the MSc Data Science Curriculum which was officially launched at the university in 2018. UDSM was the first university to launch such a course in East and Central Africa region.  As a data scientist, she has worked with various organizations, such as Cambridge Education, Irex, World Bank, IntraHealth International and Web Foundation as a training consultant. She is also a Tanzania Data Lab NGO co-founder who is on a mission to strengthen data ecosystem in Tanzania and Africa through capacity development focusing on youth engagement programmes, with special interest in young girls. She has delivered a number of strategic consulting and capacity building training on open data, data innovation, management, visualization and analysis to a couple of governments, non-governmental organizations and private sector entities. Mahadia is one among the seven Open Data trainers in Africa certified by Open Data Institute – London. She is also an ambassador of women in data science conference initiated by Stanford University in the United States of America, whose idea, according to her, is “to bring all outstanding women in data science field and show their work so that they can inspire others.” She has also pioneered women in data programme, where more than 1,000 women and young girls from Tanzania have benefited through data skills training. Going forward, she would love to further impart data science knowledge to fellow Tanzanians, and to be able to do that effectively, she is currently pursuing a PhD in Data Science programme at the UDSM. The scientist says that Tanzania is behind when it comes to data science, but there are a lot of initiatives trying to train young people to master the field. “Youths have seen the potential and are taking over, but there are still a lot of things to do,” she emphasizes. Born to civil servant parents in 1986 in Dar es Salaam, Mahadia did well from the very beginning in school, and being the only girl in the family, everybody in the family kept a special eye on her. All teachers at primary school, she says, were inspirational, but she remembers a mathematics teacher at Forodhani Primary School, one Mr. Mwalongo, who kept insisting that she can perform better if she stopped being naughty and focus on studies. “I started concentrating at standard four and became another person, a performer,” she remembers.  She would later go to Marian Girls for her secondary school and performed well. Mahadia thinks initiatives to empower girls to become scientists need to be coordinated. “Many of the initiatives happen in Dar es Salaam.  There are very few in other cities, and almost non-existent in remote areas,” she says, explaining that “it seems that we are empowering the empowered, because those in Dar have a chance to access resources elsewhere.  There are lots of initiatives concentrated in one area.” She urges young girls and boys to push hard and fill themselves with a lot of positive energies and believe that it can be done. “Youngsters should surround themselves with people who believe in their dreams.  They should be positive, be optimistic and network with successful people, or those who are struggling to succeed,” she advices. As a parent, wife, and scientist, keeping time is paramount in succeeding. “When you manage your time well, you will find chances to achieve your dreams,” she says. According to her, life is not always flat, there are ups and downs. So, young people should learn to take advantage of situations and always appreciate and use wisely little resources at hand to achieve big things. Emmanuel Rubagumya writes about science, technology and innovation.  Email: innovationstz@gmail.com