PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein said here that the government does not violate anybody’s right, and it has been practicing good governance along with smooth democracy. “We have no culture of abusing human rights, instead, we are committed in promoting people rights, and ensuring that the rule of law, good governance and democracy prevails,” Shein said when he met members of the Tanzania Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance (CHRAGG). Dr Shein informed members of CHRAGG led by its chairman, Judge (Rtd), Mathew Pauwa Mhina Mwaimu that the respect of human rights and promotion of good governance started by the 1964 revolution which ended the colonial and sultanate regime. He said that the government’s ongoing efforts to fight corruption, Gender Based Violence (GBV) and freedom of expression further shows seriousness in making the country a better place for all as far as human rights are concerned. “Free social services for all [health care, education], and prevailing peace and stability in the country are other indicators of a democratic country respecting human right. Let us maintain and sustain the success,” Dr Shein emphasized on working with the union government. The president promised to continue working with CHRAGG to achieve the commission’s goals. The Commission, regarded as an independent government department, was established in the year 2000 as the national focal point for the promotion and protection of human rights in Tanzania. On Covid-19, Dr Shein said serious efforts have been taken by the two governments led by President John Pombe Magufuli, health officers and members of the public. Members of the CHRAGG were on familiarization mission to Zanzibar as they also met with second Vice-President, Ambassador Seif Iddi, Isles Minister for Constitution & Legal Affairs, Mr Khamis Juma Mwalim; Minister for Good Governance Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman; and Minister responsible for Information, Mr Mahmoud Thabit Kombo. In response, Judge (Rtd), Mwaimu commended Dr Shein for his splendid leadership, which includes promoting human rights in the country, “We also thank the union government for doing the same. Promoting human rights, democracy, and victory over Covid-19 need concerted efforts.”