THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), has discovered that 3.3 bn/-has been paid to non-existing houses (ghost houses) in the ongoing land compensation exercise targeting villagers living near North Mara Gold Mine. The PCCB Regional Bureau Chief (RBC), Mr Alex Kuhanda revealed this during a press conference held in Tarime on Wednesday evening. The regional PCCB boss blamed the valuation exercise, saying it was marred by corruption acts meant to benefit people who did not have houses or land. “Valuation involved nonexisting houses worth millions of shillings in bushes which have never existed,” Mr Kuhanda said. He said investigation is still going on to establish the exact amount paid to people with zero property. PCCB investigation targets cheating involving 5.1bn/-, but the figure is likely to go up, according to Mr Kuhanda. Speaking at the same press conference, Mara Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Adam Malima ordered for the arrest of all those involved in the deceit. The RC issued the order to Tarime/Rorya Regional Police Commander (RPC), William Mkonda and his counterpart of Mara Region, RPC Daniel Shilla who were also present during the evening press conference also attended by top regional and district security officials. “The list includes government officials, village and sub village leaders. All those involved should be arrested and face legal action,” the RC ordered. “How can you be paid millions of shillings when you don’t have a plot or a house?” Mr Malima queried. He said the investigation will further touch Barrick officials working at the North Mara Gold Mine, and that those who will be found to have been involved in the game will also be arrested and face legal measures. “We will also go to financial institutions (banks), and if we find any person involved, they will be taken as well,” Mr Malima said. The RC maintained that as the government continues to clear the air on this, all citizens with clean requests should continue turning up to receive their cash.