WITH the Isles Premier League’s fixture already released, teams here have been seriously shaping up their squads ahead the league return on June 24, this year. All remaining matches will be staged at Mao Dze Tung A and B arenas in 2:00pm and 4:00pm formats. According to the new fixture, Salem View will re-open the kick off by facing Mafunzo at Mao Dze Tung A at 2:00pm while at the venue’s B pitch, JKU will be facing Mwenge at the same period. Defending champions KMKM will be at Mao Dze Tung B at 4:00pm to face Jamhuri while Mlandege will be at the same time facing Zimamoto at the A pitch of the venue. Officials from the Isles defending champions KMKM, Chipukizi and Jamhuri expressed their teams’ readiness for the league as they are seriously preparing for its return on June 24th. KMKM Manager Othman Hassan Omar ‘King’ said he was satisfied with fitness levels of his players now resumed training ahead of the Isles top flight league this month. He said every player responded well to the training programme he offered during the tenweek hiatus. The manager, who also serves as the team’s assistant coach, lauded his players saying they perfectly implemented every aspect of the training progamme. The coach’s revelation came two days after the team started a teamlevel training and saw that all players were fit as they were prior to the tenweek hiatus. "The outbreak of Coronavirus has deeply affected teams and sports personality, but I am very satisfied to see all players looking fit after staying out of the pitch for a long time,” he said. KMKM who are Isles League’s defending champions were leading then league table with 46 points closely chased by JKU with 45 points. The team officially resumed training on Monday last week. But, the secretary general of Chipukizi FC, Ali Juma Khamis said they didn’t have enough time to preparing the squad something he said might affect his players’ performance. Chipukizi is one of the 16 clubs that feature in the Isles Premier League and it was placed 16th when the league was suspended in mid-March this year. Additionally, Jamhuri FC manager Abdallah Abeid Elisha lauded the new system that wants all teams to play at one venue saying it is economical. Still he sees the system needs some improvements to make it very effective.