THE government has instructed banks and other financial institutions to assess financial difficulties experienced by borrowers due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in respect of loan repayment, while praising Exim Bank Tanzania, which has announced loan rescheduling for customers whose businesses have been badly affected by the global pandemic. Presenting to the National Assembly the estimates of government revenue and expenditure for 2020/21 recently, Minister of Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, besides commending Exim Bank Tanzania, he urged other banks to take a leaf by re-negotiating loan restructuring and agreeing with borrowers on loan rescheduling. “The government through the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) will provide a regulatory flexibility to banks and other financial institutions that will restructure loan repayment in a transparent and impartial manner,’’ He insisted. In response to evaluation of Covid-19 effects and transmission trend, the government took various socioeconomic measures to support most affected sectors, including reducing the discount rate by BoT from 7 percent to 5 percent. The measure intended to provide more space for banks to borrow from the BoT at lower interest rates and thus reducing lending rates to customers. The minister’s reference to Exim Bank Tanzania comes few days after the bank announced relief measures for its corporate, small and medium enterprise clients in various sectors of the economy that faced significant income and cash flow impacts as a result of the pandemic. “The move forms part of the ongoing bank’s initiatives to financially assist the sectors that have been adversely impacted by providing them with a cushion during these trying times,” said Mr Jaffari Matundu, Exim Chief Executive Officer through the bank’s statement released to the media. He said as of June, the bank had provided relief of over 160bn/- in form of payment holidays and extension of loan repayment periods to help our clients in various sectors sail through the impact of Covid–19 on their businesses. “The bank understands the needs of our clients during these times and we are doing all that is possible to help them navigate through. We are doing this not only through loan restructuring, but also through advisory services on business strategies in ensuring that the respective businesses survive and in turn thrive again.” “The relief initiatives are provided on a case by case basis, because evidently, the effects of Covid-19 have not been the same across the board. Clients in severely impacted sectors of the economy have been proactively approached and assisted. Discussions with more are still ongoing, exploring various measures that best suit the nature and type of businesses,” he added. Commenting on the bank's decision, the Chief Executive Officer of the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA), Peter Kifunguomali said it would help many business owners to gain enough time to re-establish their business so that they could regain the power to repay loans without wavering. “It’s undeniable fact that the impact of Covid-19 has had a huge impact on key sectors and many business owners are now struggling to get rid of the situation. The decision made by Exim Bank should also be made by other banks as well to help their clients who are in need of financial support,” he said.