YOUNG Africans made a perfect restart in the Mainland Premier League with a slim 1-0 win over Mwadui FC at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga yesterday. Diminutive attacking midfielder Mapinduzi Balama netted the lone goal of the match in the first half to keep Yanga’s scant title hope alive. Following the victory Yanga remained third on the log, tied second placed Azam FC on 54 points from 28 matches each but the ‘ice cream makers’ have superior goal difference. The league resumed after 94 days absence due to Covid-19 thread. And, there was a matter of concern at the venue yesterday, as some fans breached health safety guidelines protocols provided by the government as a preventive measure to avoid Covid-19 spread. Several fans failed to observe a one metre distance as they were packed closely and some were without face masks. The government has stressed that all venues which will not meet the set up guidelines to curb further spread of Covid-19 will be suspended from hosting matches. Some measures include limiting the number of fans in case of big matches, where there is a possibility of fans to flock in big numbers and affect the one meter distance rule. In this case, only half of the carrying capacity of the stadium will be allowed to enter. It also requires everyone not on the pitch -- fans, team officials, journalists and all other stakeholders involved would be required to wear face masks throughout when at the venue. As predicted, it was a tough encounter and Yanga were on front pedal immediately after the kick off. Just after second minute, Ditram Nchimbi threatened with pace and guile but was timely tackled by Joram Mgeveke. In the 5th minute, Balama blasted home the opener. A cross in by Jafary Mohammed was connected by Nchimbi but goalkeeper, Mahmoud Amour blocked his initial shot and the ball landed on Balama’s path, who played a one two touches with Deus Kaseke before the former slammed in a powerful shot that precisely beat the keeper. Yanga had the better of the first opening 25 minutes, while the hosts were chasing the shadows. Luc Eymael charges kept pushing for more goals and Kaseke was lively on the right side, giving defenders torrid time. The Belgian tactician opted to deploy central defender, Kelvin Yondani as a defensive midfielder in the absence of skipper Papy Tshishimbi. Ghanaian defender Lamine Moro partnered Said Juma Makapu at the heart of defence and they looked robust in defending. Yanga dominated most part of the first half and put Mwadui in trouble in several occasions but failed to capitalise from chances they created. However, in the 32nd minute, Mwadui almost pulled level, when Augustine Samson’s long range high volley effort was punched away by goalkeeper Metacha Mnata before hitting the wood work for a corner kick. A minute before the interval Omar Abdallah was brought down outside the box, while charging into the box but Mwadui failed to make the most from a set piece. After the break, Yanga started strongly and in the 49th minute Haruna Niyonzima danced past defenders on the right side and released Kaseke, whose low cross found Patrick Sibomana in space but his side foot shot was timely blocked by a defender. Mwadui slightly came into the picture and pushed for an equaliser but Yanga defenders stood firm. In the 64th minute Moro put his life in line as his sprawling frame blocked a shot from Gerald Mathias. Yanga introduced Gnamien Yikpe for Sibomana, while Adeyoum Salehe replaced Jaffary Mohamed, who picked a knock and limped off the pitch. Later on, Abdulaziz Makame replaced Balama. In the 68th minute, Nchimbi thought he had scored the second, when he reached to a low cross from Kaseke and clutched the ball into the back of the net but it was ruled out for an offside. In another match yesterday, Coastal Union battled to a 2-2 draw with Lindi’s Namungo FC at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga.