HIGH demand for cassava in overseas markets, including China, has prompted farmers to pursue increased production while attracting more funding from lenders. In the recent move, cassava farmers have benefitted from 3bn/- financing that will benefit some 43 groups with over 421 farmers. The loan disbursed by NMB Bank to 43 groups will see a total of 421 farmers benefiting fully and is meant to address recurring issues of low productivity, limited farmers’ participation to agribusiness supply chains, and institutional realignment in the agricultural sector. The Bank’s Chief Retail Baking, Filbert Mponzi, made the revelation at Mkata in Handeni, during the official handover of 3bn/- loans to cassava farmers from the district. NMB Bank has approved 40bn/- to finance small-scale farmers this year aimed at boosting agricultural productivity in the country. In the 3bn/- issued by the financial institution, the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) is offering 50 per cent guarantee. He said the bank is seeing great potential in cassava farming thanks to efforts made by Handeni District Commissioner Godwin Gondwe to champion the process of recruiting farmers for them to start benefiting from financing from banks. “Today we have issued a total of 3bn/- to cassava growers at Mkata, Handeni District. We plan to lend over 40bn/- to small scale farmers this year. This support will enhance food security, local production, job creation and economic diversification. This is because agriculture is crucial to long-term economic growth and diversification,” he said. He explained that the move is aimed at encouraging investment in cassava production to enable farmers to increase their income while at the same time adapting to the Chinese market demand as well as strengthening household incomes and eradicating poverty. He expressed his commitment to support cassava farming, a move which is designed to guarantee loans to farmers. Currently, over 600 Small and Medium Scale farmers have opened accounts at NMB. According to him, agribusiness will be among their top priorities, adding that as the bank...they want to be seen as an agricultural bank in this country. Mr Mponzi said they have great trust with their partnership with TADB which has brought great success. Explaining the nature of interest in particular groups, he said that interest rate is 16 per cent and that borrowers are small farmers in groups. He said that for several years now, agriculture has made a significant contribution to the Tanzanian economy especially in terms of food availability, export trade, supporting the supply of domestic raw materials and providing employment to Tanzanians. Handeni District Commissioner Godwin Gondwe thanked the NMB bank for the loan to cassava farmers. He said cassava farming has increased 87 per cent of pupils’ performance this year and income for farmers in Handeni District. “The district has been in contact with various development partners and stakeholders in supporting the availability of sufficient seeds for all farmers in the district,” he said. Explaining Handeni District’s movement in promoting cassava crop, Chairperson of the Tanzania Cassava Producers and Processors Association (TACAPPA), Ms Mwantumu Mahiza, said the 3bn/-loan is historical for the country and is a movement that goes hand in hand with training, providing quality seed to farmers as well as ensuring that cassava increase productivity.