PRESIDENT Jakaya Kikwete was, obviously, genuinely displeased by being  associated  with  the  said underground  pact  (which  prevented  my  re-election  to  the  Speakership), without  his  express  consent; Because  he  quickly  took  remedial measures to  relieve  me  of  the  inevitable  pain resulting  from  being  victim  of  a  deliberately organised  plot,  or indeed   coup. He  started  by   appointing  me  to  the  Chairmanship  of  the  Ngorongoro  Conservation  Area Authority (NCAA);  Which  had  just  become  vacant  upon  the  death  by  accident of  its  former  Chairman.  This  appointment  exposed  me  to  a  vast  new  world  of  conservation  and  tourism;  Which  I  greatly  appreciated. But  he  was  apparently  also  waiting  for  the  next  CCM  general  elections,  which  were  due  to be  held  in  2007;  To  sponsor  my  election  to  the  post  of  CCM  Vice-Chairman  for  Mainland  Tanzania,  to  replace  veteran  politician  John  Samuel  Malecela. In  the  meantime,  Parliament  itself  kindly  organised  a  glittering  “send-off”  dinner  party  for  me,  which  was  attended  by  all  the  Ministers  as  well  as  the  Opposition  Shadow  Ministers,  at  which  it  was  announced  that  the  former  National  Assembly  Chamber  would  be  re-named  “Msekwa  Hall”,  in  my  honour  and  lasting  memory.  I was,  indeed,  very  highly  elated.  That  was  the  9th  Parliament,  under  the  leadership  of  Speaker  Samuel  Sitta.  However,  this  Institutional  kindness  appears  to  have  continued,  for,  much  more  recently, the  11th  Parliament,  under  the  leadership  of  Speaker  Job  Ndugai, Parliament  again  presented  to  me  the  very  valuable  gift  of  the  original  Speaker’s  Robe,  which  I  was  wearing  during  my  time  in  the  Speaker’s  Chair. However, the  incipient  personal  power  struggle  between  the  Prime  Minister  and  the  Speaker referred  to  earlier,  had  not  been  settled  at  all  by  the  underground  pact.  Because   trouble  quickly  started  brewing  in  the  National  Assembly  among  CCM  backbench  MPs;   Which  had  been   caused  by  a  serious  scandal,  allegedly  involving  the  Prime   Minister,  Edward  Lowassa,  which  is  described  below. The  ‘Richmond  scandal’  National  Assembly  debate A  very  heated ‘Richmond  debate’, took  place  in  the National Assembly in  February  2008,  which  led  to the  emergence  of  two  antagonistic  groups  among  the  CCM  members  of  Parliament. The  debate  centered on  the  Report  of  a  special  Parliamentary  Committee,  which  had  been  formed   by  the  Speaker,  to probe  and  investigate  an  allegation  of  a  grand  corruption  (Ufisadi  in  Kiswahili) by the then Prime Minister Edward  Lowassa, who was accused of having applied undue pressure  and  personal  influence, in  facilitating  the  awarding  of  a  lucrative  Government  contract  for  the  supply  of electricity generators to  a company  called  “Richmond”. The  outcome  of  this  debate  was  totally  unexpected,  for  it led  to the resignation  of  Prime  Minister  Edward  Lowassa,  and  two  other  Ministers. Thereafter,  the group which  had caused the  downfall  of  the  Prime  Minister  jovially  identified  itself  as  the  “anti-ufisadi  crusaders”, and declared  themselves as the  fighting  force  against  grand  corruption  in  the  country.  The  Prime  Minister  and  his  supporters  in  the  Richmond  saga   were  presumed  to  be  the corrupt gang (Mafisadi)  whom  the  ‘crusaders’  were  fighting  against.  It  was  an  ugly  political  situation.   This  Ufisadi  issue  had  torn  the  CCM  MPs  down  the  middle! The  matter  was  serious  enough  to  merit  the  intervention  of  the  CCM  National  Executive  Committee;  which  was  asked  to  discuss  the  matter  at  its  next  ordinary  meeting  held  in  Dodoma  in  2009. Most  of  the  NEC  members  who  expressed  their  views  at  that  meeting,  put  the  blame  squarely  on  Speaker  Sitta,  whom  they  accused  of  having  facilitated  the  fracas  in  the  House,  in  pursuance  of  his  own  personal  ambitions  and  personal  hatred  against  the  Prime  Minister. They  actually called for  his  immediate  dismissal  from   membership  of  the  Ruling  party,  in  order  to  throw  him  out  of  Parliament,  But it was  not  only  him  who  came  under  fire,   the  CCM  members  of  Parliament  were also collectively censured, for  their  failure  to  make  use  of  their Parliamentary  caucus  to  resolve  these  personal  differences  among  themselves. However,  Party  Chairman  Jakaya  Kikwete,  who  chaired  that  meeting,  was  not  convinced  that  punishing  Speaker  Samuel  Sitta  in  the  way  suggested,  would  be  a  viable  solution  to  the  political  challenges  that  had  emerged  in  Parliament,  with  this  serious  infighting  between  the  two  antagonistic  groups. He therefore  skillfully  persuaded  the  meeting  to  agree  to  appoint  a  team  of  three  respected CCM  elders,  who  were  also  members  of  NEC,  under  the  Chairmanship  of  retired  President  Ali  Hassan  Mwinyi,  who  were  given  the  task  of  reconciling  the  ‘warring’  factions  in  Parliament. The  other  two  members  of  the  team  were  CCM  Vice-Chairman  Pius  Msekwa,  and  Abdul  Kinana,  former  Speaker  of  the  East  African  Legislative  Assembly. This  Elders’  Team  dutifully  did  what  they  were  tasked  to  do.  It  is  however  not clear  whether  the  desired  reconciliation was achieved. But  at least,  there  was  satisfactory  temporary  truce,  until  the time when this  9th  Parliament  was  dissolved  at  the  end  of  its  term  in  2010. But  still, presumably  in  the  continued  search  for  a  viable  solution  to  the  pending  problem  in  Parliament,   the  CCM  Central  Committee  effectively  barred  Speaker  Sitta  from  seeking  re-election to the  Speakership,  when that  Committee  nominated  a  ‘women  only’ team  of  candidates,  to  compete  in  that  election  on  the  CCM  ticket. President  Kikwete  re-brands  Butiama  Village In  ordinary  English  language  usage, the word “rebrand” has a  commercial  meaning,  whose  dictionary  definition  is  given  as  “ to  change  the  image  of  a  company,  or  Organisation; Or one of its products or services, for a specific purpose”.                                                                                                                                           However, in  2009, President  Jakaya  Kikwete  wisely decided ‘to  give  a  new  image’  to  Butiama  Village; For  the  sole  purpose  of identifying it as a ‘special  place’,  being  the  birthplace  of  Mwalimu  Julius  Kambarage  Nyerere,  the  Father  of  our  nation. In  his  capacity  as  CCM  national  Chairman, he  directed  that  the  October  ordinary  meeting  of  the  CCM  National  Executive  Committee  be  held  in  Butiama  Village,  (that  October  being  the  10th anniversary of  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  death  in  October, 1999). President  Kikwete  had  decided  to  uplift  the  village  of  Butiama  from  an  ordinary  village  in  rural  Tanzania,  to  a  higher  status  in  the  country’s  Administrative  structure.  He  therefore  did  two  things  at  that  NEC  meeting:  First,  he  sponsored  a resolution, which was adopted by NEC, calling upon Tanzanians “kumuenzi  marehemu  Nyerere  kwa  vitendo”. And secondly, in part-fulfillment of that  resolution.  He  announced  his  decision  to  upgrade  Butiama  Village  to  the higher  “District  status”,  with  immediate  effect. But  in  order  to  make  it viable  administratively,  the  boundaries  of  this  new  district were extended to include  number  of  neighbouring  villages,  but  the  district  headquarters  would  be  located  in  Butiama  village  itself. This  is  how  Butiama  District  came  into  existence,  the  grand  intention  being  to  give  greater  recognition  to  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  birthplace.  Subsequently,  The  National  Electoral  Commission  declared  Butiama  District  to  be  a  Parliamentary  constituency.  The 2010 General Elections, another                                                                                                                               ‘end  of  an  era’  The  2010  general  elections  are  what  brought  to  a  closure,  President  Jakaya  Kikwete’s  first  term  of  office  as  President.  But  that  was  also  the  time  of  my  final  retirement  from  full-time  Public  Service  engagements  and commitments. We  will  deal  first  with  the  general  elections  results. The  2010  general elections  results were pretty  bad  for  Chama  cha  Mapinduzi,  in  the  sense  that they  showed  clearly  that  the  popularity  rating  of  the  Ruling  Party  in  the  eyes  of  the  general  public,  had  dropped  very  steeply.  People  were  generally accusing CCM  of the  offence  of  “ defending  and  harbouring   the  suspects  of  grand  corruption  within  its  ranks” (Mafisadi). As  a  result,  the  Opposition  parties  gained  a  lot  of  ground,  at  the  expense  of  the  Ruling  party,  CCM. The Presidential election results were as follows:- 1. Jakaya  Kikwete  (CCM) = 62.83 percent  (down  from  80.28 percent of  2005). 2.  Dr  Wilbrod  Slaa (CHADEMA)=27.05 percent  (up  from  5.88  of  2005) 3. Professor  Ibrahim  Lipumba (CUF)=8.28 percent (down from 11.8 percent of  2005). 4. Peter  Mziray  Kuga (PPT-MAENDELEO)=1.15% (up  from 0.17  of  2005). The  rest,  namely : NCCR-MAGEUZI;  TLP;  and  UPDP;  received 0,31 percent,  0.21 percent,  and  0.16 percent  respectively. The  Parliamentary  elections: CCM  obtained  60.20 percent  (down  from  over  70 percent of 2005; (when CCM candidates in 8 constituencies had been elected  unopposed).  My final retirement from active public service The  year  2012  was  CCM’s  general  election  year,  which  was  also  the  end  of  my  term  of  office  as  CCM  Vice-Chairman  fo  Tanzania  Mainland. The  CCM  national  Chairman,  President  Jakaya  Kikwete,  was preparing  to  sponsor  me  for  re-election  to  the  post  of  CCM  Vice-Chairman  for  Mainland  Tanzania,  for  the  next  CCM  leadership  period  (2012 -2017). However, I was  worried,  on  two  accounts.  The  first  is  that  in  2012,  I  had  reached  the  age  of  78  years. Although  I  was  healthy,  strong,  and  robust  in  carrying  out  my  responsibilities;   I  was  apprehensive  of  what  my  health  condition  would  be  in  the  next  following  five  years. Two,  but  even  if,  by  the  grace  of  God,  my  health  condition  presented  no  problem (as  indeed  it  turned  out  to  be  the  case,  as  I  am  still  ‘going  strong’);   I  was  still   fearful  of  being  rightly  accused  of  overstaying  in  office  (Uchu  wa  madaraka),  and  denying  a  chance to younger  people,  to  also  play  their  rightful  part  in  the  leadership  of  the  party. I therefore wrote a letter to Chairman Jakaya Kikwete, explaining these  circumstances,,  and  asking  to  be  allowed  to  retire  from  active  service  in the  party.  Chairman  Kikwete  was  quite  understanding, and  in  his  kind  reply  letter,  as  well  as  granting  my  request  and  wishing  me  a  happy  retirement;  he also  asked  me  to  be  prepared  to  continue   serving   the nation  in  other appropriate  ways,  as  and  when  asked  to  do  so  by  the  relevant  authorities.  And  indeed  before  the  expiry  of  his  second  Presidential term,  at  the  beginning  of  May,  2015,  President  Kikwete appointed me Chancellor of the newly established Moshi Cooperative    University (MoCU). The  events  of  the  year  2011 CCM’s  relatively  poor  performance  in  the  2010  general  elections  became  a  kind  of  “wake-up call”  for  the  party;  Because  it  led  to  a  serious internal  evaluation  exercise  being  undertaken  by  the  party  itself,  for the  purpose  of  ascertaining  the  causes  of  this  sharp  decline  in  its  popularity. The  evaluation  assignment  was  awarded  to  a  small,  but  dedicated  ‘think-tank’  group  of  CCM  cadres,  under  the  leadership  of  Wilson  Mkama (who  subsequently  was  appointed  CCM  Secretary-General). This  group  did  a  splendid job  in  examining  all the relevant factors,  and  eventually  produced  a  high  quality  Report,  which  gave  minute  details  regarding  what  it  perceived  to  be  CCM’s  strengths  and  weaknesses,  and,  in  particular,   pointing  out  the  factors  which  had  contributed  directly  to  the  relatively  poor  performance  in  the  2010  general  elections. But Party  Chairman  Jakaya   Kikwete    noticed  that  the  language,  and  presentation,  of  this  elite  group’s  Report  was  needlessly  ‘academic’.  He  therefore  asked  me,  as  Vice-Chairman,  to  prepare a  simplified  Kiswahili  version of  it,  which  would  be  more  suitable  for  discussion by  CCM  NEC  members.  Which  I  happily  did. The  said  Report  was  submitted to  a  regular  meeting  of  the  CCM  National  Executive  Committee  meeting  in  April, 2011, for consideration  and  appropriate  decision-making  on  its  recommendations.  The  result  was  a  statement  showing  the massive  re-branding  of  the  party,  both  in  its  organisational  structure,  and  in  its  mode  of  operations;  which  was  pointedly  titled  “kujivua  gamba”. (Will  be continued  next  week).        