YOUNG Africans Head Coach Luc Eymael has admitted that his team’s attacking force is blunt after posting a slim 1-0 win over Mwadui FC at CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga on Saturday. It was Balama Mapinduzi who scored the lone goal of the match in the 6th minute of the first half which remained unanswered till the end of tense 90 minutes. The slump was rather a salt on fresh wound for Mwadui who desperately needed a victory to push themselves up on the league table and be safe from relegation wrath at the end of the season. But, in his post-match address, Eymael said they missed three clear chances on the day which could have made them to win with a big- goal margin. "We know that we have difficulties to score goals after missing many scoring chances but what matters most is the three points and not the number of goals. "The players played with commitment and big heart to display quality football, but on the pitch like this, it was hard to achieve that because the ball was bouncing like you are flying popcorns," Eymael said. He then extended his praises to the players, management and fantastic fans of Yanga for being part and parcel of the victory on the day. On his part, the club's assistant captain Juma Abdul was happy for the positive results despite having a nightmare road trip from Dar es Salaam to Shinyanga. "Together, we have contributed to this win as each player executed well his responsibilities on the pitch during the normal period of the play. "After losing 3-0 to KMC in our last friendly match, we had to forget about that and focus on the premier league encounter to pocket essential three points," Abdul said. On his part, Mwadui FC coach Khalid Adam said it was not a lucky day for them to pocket vital three points from the home soil. "We were able to possess the ball and reach at their goal only that we could not turn into goals the chances we created. Losing is part of the match," he said. He added that the negative outcome does not mean that all their upcoming games will end that way insisting that they still have a room to improve.