FOR years now, it has been a life of struggle for Mariam Desiri of Gidagamowd village in Manyara Region. She and her fellow villagers have had, year in, year out, to contend with serious water shortages in their village. According to Mariam, the only source of water in the village is from the ponds. Dirty water that they often share with their animals-making it even scarcer and exposing them and their children to waterborne diseases. They were always hoping against hope that one day, someone will be compassionate enough to recognize their plight and provide them with clean, safe and reliable water for drinking and for their domestic use. And then, like a breath of air, Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) came calling and not only did the company address the predicament of Gidagamowd village but also extended their caring hand to the neighbouring village of Galangal. Constructed at a cost of over 70m/-, the borehole boasts a capacity of 156,000 litres per day and will be able to supply safe and clean water to almost 12,000 residents from the twin villages. “I have had to walk for more than 15 kilometres to Vindadi Ward to collect water that we think is clean enough to drink because the water from our seasonal ponds is too filthy to drink,” Mariam, a mother of four, says. She says that during dry spells, they sometimes go without taking a bath for a months. So, how did Mariam and other residents of the two villages react when SBL completed a borehole to provide safe, clean and reliable water in the area in April this year? “If there’s a greatest gift that God has given to us, it’s this water project. We still cannot believe that we have reliable water here”, says Mariam. “We are really grateful to SBL for relieving us of this huge burden that we had because most of us women were unable to carry out our daily chores effectively.” Her sentiments are echoed by Askadi Dodaye, a husband and father who, like other parents in the two villages, have to bear the brunt of water scarcity in the area. “Life starts with clean water. Without it, our children suffer. Our daughters cannot go to school and our women cannot work effectively. Before this project, women had to get up very early in the morning to go in search of water. Our daughters also have had a hard time, sometimes skipping school days to help their mothers in scavenging for water or helping out at homes as their mothers roamed all over the place for clean water,” says Dodaye. The Village Executive Officer (VEO) of Gidagamowd village, Jeremiah Mathiya is equally a happy man hoping for better as they now get safe water. He said their lives had now changed for good. Our people will definitely be healthier now because they are assured of clean and safe water and also most of their time that was spent on searching for water will be spent on economically productive activities. He said the huge amount of resources that we were being spent on water will now be put into more fruitful use such as obtaining essential goods and taking our children, more so our daughters, to school. SBL has since 2010 to date, spent over 1.1bn/- in drilling 17 boreholes across the country, an undertaking that has made a significant contribution in the alleviation of shortage of water in the country. Through its programme known as Water of Life (WOL), the brewer has in most of these projects partnered with other organizations in ensuring that Tanzanians are provided with safe and clean water in some of the neediest areas. According to SBL Corporate Relations Director, John Wanyancha, the beer-maker considers water to be key in the country’s future prosperity and that is why it has always been ready to collaborate with the government and other partners in facilitating the country’s access to safe and clean water. “SBL has a policy commitment towards the wellbeing of communities in the country with water provision being one of our four priority areas that our company has defined in its objective to provide social support to improve the social wellbeing of Tanzanians,” says Wanyancha describing other priority areas as, provision of Skills for Life, Environmental Sustainability and Promotion of Responsible Drinking.