IN 2013, authorities in Tanzania announced that over 90 per cent of lubricants, especially in Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions, had been contaminated posing serious risks on the lifespan of vehicles and financial implications to the motorists. The lubricants tested basing on the American Petroleum Institute (API) standards were found not suitable for use. If you own a vehicle, probably you know how important changing your car’s oil at regular intervals is not only a good idea but also necessary to keep your engine running properly. Pursuant to Cap 414 and sector legislation, the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA) is responsible for technical and economic regulation of the electricity, petroleum, natural gas and water sectors in the country. In other words, it is charged with licensing, reviewing tariffs, handling complaints as well as monitoring performance and standards. As of 2018, EWURA announced it had succeeded in combating oil adulteration and was battling against the influx of fake lubricants which kept finding their way into the local markets. Details published by the authority during the financial year ending June 2015 showed 12 out of 64 samples of lubricant collected from 22 different retail outlets in Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Kilimanjaro, Arusha and Mwanza regions were substandard basing on Tanzania Bureau of Standards’ engine oils minimum performance specification and multipurpose automotive gear lubricant – specification. Even Ewura’s 2017 survey, aimed at assessing the general quality of lubricants in the local market, revealed a more appealing challenge when inspection into 10 samples of lubricants turned to be out of TBS specification. EWURA’s Public Relations and Communication Manager Titus Kaguo, says the authority has conducted operations to curb fake lubricant trade into the local market. He explained that part of the authority’s operations have seen a surge of lubricants being produced in the country. “This is an achievement considering that we used to have a lot of foreign-made-imported products in which control of standards poses more challenges,” he noted. EWURA, under section 30 (2) of the Petroleum Act, 2015, Cap 392 is responsible for issuing construction approval of any installation related to mid and downstream petroleum sub-sector. In addition, Mr Kaguo says “any person wishing to undertake mid and downstream petroleum activities in Tanzania Mainland must apply and obtain a licence from EWURA.” This is pursuant to section 131 (4) of the petroleum legislation. In simple term, the authority has been tasked to issue such licence with regards to lubricant blending, wholesale and distribution. Traders importing the commodity must be registered and every lubricant must obtain TBS certification. Undertaking mid and downstream petroleum activity in the Mainland without EWURA licence is, therefore, a criminal offence and upon conviction one can be liable to a fine or to imprisonment or both. In separate interviews with motorists from Dar es Salaam, Dodoma and Arusha regions, the `Daily News’ concluded that a lot of vehicle owners and local mechanical engineers are ignorant of the petroleum sub-sector. The two are in confusion over the influx of lubricants in the local market vis-à-vis the appropriate lubricant to use on one’s private vehicle. There are a lot of lubricant companies into the local market and one can easily be confused, said Abul Jumaa, a mechanical engineer in Dodoma. The mechanical expert explains that the most important part of all is the car manual that lists recommended oil weight in a standard symbol of like 10W-30 or more. As most cars in Tanzania are manufactured in Japan, their manuals are not in English or Swahili but Japanese. The best way to know is to google, he suggests. He quickly said the foreign imported oil containers have a starburst symbol indicating the lubricant has been tested by API. “There are different symbols used such as SL standing for a group of laboratory and engine tests, including the latest series for control of high-temperature deposits and the Society of Automotive Engineers –SAE that provides viscosity number and tells you if the oil has passed the Energy Conserving test,” he noted. According to the expert, motor oil thins as it heats and thickens as it cools. “As said earlier the more resistant it is to thinning, the higher the second number say, 10W-40 versus 10W-30, ... and that’s good,” he says. Thicker oil generally seals better and maintains a better film of lubrication between moving parts. At the low-temperature end, oil has to be resistant to thickening so that it flows more easily to all the moving parts in your engine. Also, if the oil is too thick, the engine requires more energy to turn the crankshaft, which is partly submerged in a bath of oil. Excessive thickness can make it harder to start the engine, which reduces fuel economy. Mariam Khamis was once confused by her mechanical engineer when she was told she had all this while gotten it wrong when she used 5W-40 oil on her Nissan Teana 230. It was during the time when she wanted to change engine oil but with a different shop. “I am told I have to use SAE 40. It is unfortunate because some people have told me this oil specification is only good for a tractor,” she said. Another motorist acknowledged that SAE 40 is harming and will keep destroying a lot more vehicles as people are not aware of the specifications. Total Tanzania Limited announced last year it had acquired a lubricant blending plant at Chang’ombe industrial in Dar es Salaam targeting to blend 15,000 metric tonnes of lubricants, greases and coolant for local use and exportation to the nearby regions. EWURA announced last March that it had issued three licenses for lubricant blending and five wholesale during the financial year ending June 2019. It said generally, there are significant improvements in compliance to petroleum products quality specifications. The report said “petroleum products offered for sale to consumers are of the right quality and do conform to TBS specifications.” It is part of regulatory functions that are implemented in this sub-sector as they are geared to monitor for the sake of ensuring the security and quality of petroleum products supply in the country; optimize costs in respect of procurement, storage, transportation and distribution of petroleum products; and attract investment through licensing in the petroleum mid and downstream operations, thus helping to ensure reliability in the supply of petroleum products throughout the country. This also creates a level playing field to protect the interest of efficient service providers or suppliers, and implement government policies as outlined in the Energy Policy framework. The ultimate goal of EWURA (the Authority) is to protect the interests of consumers, efficient suppliers and the government, which together are key Authority’s stakeholders.