VETERAN midfielder JKT Tanzania’s Mwinyi Kazimoto has gentlemanly accepted an apology by Young Africans central defender Lamine Moro. Moro was quick to apologise following his un-sportsmanship behavior, when he back kicked the JKT Tanzania Captain during their Mainland Premier League encounter at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma on Wednesday. “It is true that he (Moro) called me and talked about the issue. On my part, it is over and I am concentrating on the upcoming league matches. Such things happen in football,” said the former Simba midfielder. Yanga were held to a 1-1 draw by resilient JKT Tanzania in a physical match played at a fully packed venue, a game which produced two red cards flashed to Moro and Kazimoto respectively. Speaking after the encounter, the Ghanaian defender conceded that he overreacted as the tense match unfolded, leading him to commit the unacceptable offence in the beautiful game of football. “Today (Wednesday), I did something which was very bad. I overreacted. I want to apologise and I am very sorry for what I have done. I have never done this kind of thing before but the adrenalines ran very high that is why I did it. “I apologise to him (Kazimoto) and to all Tanzanians. It will never happen again and I am very sorry,” Moro said. He also apologised on his Instagram page where he wrote: “Hello everyone, my name is Lamine Moro, a Young Africans player. I really wanna apologise so someone in Tanzania and TFF. I even called the guy and apologised to him. I overreacted, am very sorry forgive me everyone.” Yanga Head Coach Luc Eymael also took his time to apologise for the misconduct done by his defender on the day. “I want to apologise to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and to the opponent for the overreaction of my player. It was a tough battle for both sides and Moro is a human being. “But sorry for that. I want to also apologise to the JKT Tanzania player about the overreaction. Moro is a good guy not a fighter. It happens to everybody and I am sorry for TFF and JKT Tanzania,” Eymael said. However, the club has already taken stern disciplinary action by deducting 1m/-from Moro's monthly salary according to the official statement produced after the game and signed by the Acting General Secretary Simon Patrick. “Despite him (Moro) apologising, the club has decided to deduct 1m/-from his salary as a punishment according to the laws and regulations governing the club. “We believe in fair play, justice and respect to maintain good relationship with other clubs as such, let me use this chance to apologise to JKT Tanzania, their player Mwinyi Kazimoto and all football fans in general," reads part of the statement. So far, pundits have commended the Acting General Secretary of Young Africans for his prompt action on the player, saying that signifies maturity of the club as no player is bigger than the club. Following the results, Yanga have accumulated 55 points to remain third on the log, 17 points off the pace behind runaway league leaders Simba and two points behind second placed Azam FC. Yanga were looking to record their second successive away victory after the league restart. The Jangwani Street lads came into the match fresh after silencing Mwadui FC 1-0 at CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga last Saturday.