PAUL Manyanda Pro-10 league resumes tomorrow at Annadil Burhan oval in Dar es Salaam after a four- month hiatus following the government directives to suspend all sports activities. Cricket was among the suspended sports during a period when sports activities were suspended after the outbreak of the Covid-19 as a preventive measure against the spread of the deadly virus. The league will resume with the playoff stage in Division B and three games will be staged at the venue. The Union Sports Club shall host the first game by welcoming Annadil Burhan. With a better record in the prior game, Union defeated Annadil by nine runs and will definitely commit themselves to win again this time though it won’t be an easy encounter for the both teams. Both teams have had a lot of success after securing more wins in their division. Union have won all their seven games pocketed 14 points, while Annadil won six games and lost one against Union and have collected 12 points. Other play-off games in Division B will include Dar es Salaam Cricket Club (DCC) that will welcome Estim Cricket club. There will be also Division C matches at Annadil Burhan grounds between Dar Black Panthers and Tamil Nadu Sports Club (TNSC). Meanwhile, the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) Communication Officer, Atif Salim has noted that this Sunday a new league for the Division A will begin which is the top flight league in Tanzania. The tournament will be known as Kazim Nasser Memorial League which will be played in 50 overs format. Kazim Nasser Memorial League is a series of matches which will be played across 4 divisions with each division playing in a separate format. In Division A will play 50 overs with six teams, Division A1 will play 30 overs with eight teams, Division B will play 30 overs with six teams and Division C will play 20 overs with six teams. Salim further clarified that “Division A1, B and C leagues will begin in the first week of July. The Division A - 50 overs league will be played at Gymkhana from 9am with the match’s fixture placing Gymkhana against Strikers. “The series is named after the late Kazim Nasser who played a big role in establishing a formidable cricket structure for the Dar es Salaam leagues.”