THE government is implementing a robust project for supply of water in Morogoro Region, in a bid to ensure that there is availability of the precious liquid within the municipality by 100 per cent. The ministry of Water and Irrigation assured members of parliament in the House that it was fully committed to seeing water scarcity in Morogoro Municipality coming to an end. Responding to a question by Special Seats lawmaker, Devotha Minja (CHADEMA), the minister of water, Professor Makame Mbarawa said his ministry through Morogoro Urban Water Supply and Sewage Authority (MORUWASA) was implementing an ambitious project which seeks to get water from Divue River in Turiani District during the 2020/2021 Financial year via internal revenue sources. In her main question, Ms Minja said that Mindu Dam in Morogoro Region was now overwhelmed, asking the government when the alternative dam would be constructed. In response, the minister said that upon completion, the project was expected to provide 27,000 cubic metres of water per day, thus making availability of water in the municipality to reach 74,000 cubic metres per day, above water demand of about 67,086 per day in the municipality. “During the 2020/21 Fiscal Year, the government also intends to carry out another project for the expansion of the water treatment plant in Mafinga which sources water from Mindu Dam so that it produces 40,000 cubic metres per day and we are executing it in collaboration with the French Development Agency (AFD)." In 2017, AFD said it was targeting to provide a total of €600 million to support Tanzania’s development projects between 2017 and 2021. Out of that money, €500 million was to be channeled in government projects, mainly in water and sanitation, energy and transport. Among the implementing partners is MORUWASA, which seeks to increase drinking water production by doubling the existing capacities and securing the water resources and enhancing the water distribution system, the focus being on benefitting poor people. The project also aims at serving Morogoro’s population by expanding the existing sewerage network and improving the access to sanitation infrastructure.