THE National Electoral Commission (NEC) has endorsed incumbent President John Magufuli, alongside fourteen others to vie for the Union presidential seat. Dr Magufuli will be running for his second and final five-year term under the ruling CCM. The upcoming presidential election sees an increase in the number of presidential aspirants. Only eight candidates locked horns for the top most political leadership post in the country during the 2015 General Elections. President Magufuli will now be defending his presidency against fourteen candidates after the commission nullified the CCK and NLD aspirants for missing key appointment requirements. CCK’s David Majojele was disqualified after failing to acquire the 2000 sponsors from registered voters across Mainland Tanzania and the Isles. He also didn’t get a running mate—also a constitutional requirement. NLD candidates also failed to meet the requirements. NEC’s Chairman Judge (rtd) Semistocles Kaijage announced on Tuesday that President Magufuli is qualified after meeting terms and conditions of elections laws and the country’s constitution of 1977. Magufuli, who arrived first at the Njedengwa based—NEC headquarters accompanied with his running mate, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, and CCM Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ali, collected signatures from 15 regions granting his presidential bid. Immediately after he was declared presidential candidate, President Magufuli thanked NEC and the Chairman Judge Kaijage. Subject to section 39 (1) (a - e), 41 (2), and 47 (4) (a - e) of the Constitution of 1977 and National Election Act No 343 subsection 30, 32, 33, and 34, all candidates were required to duly fill the nomination forms and plead before the high court judge for attestation. They were also required to be nominated by bona-fide political parties in which their respective secretaries-general were required to write introductory letters to the electoral commission. Speaking on Dr Magufuli and Ms Samia Suhulu’s candidature, the Director of the National Electoral Commission, Dr Wilson Charles said: “Candidates have been sponsored by voters from ten regions, eight of which are based in Mainland Tanzania. The sponsors have also been verified and confirmed by the election returning officers,” said Dr Wilson Charles, Director of the National Electoral Commission. He went on adding that the candidates nominated had also made a cash deposit of 1m/- as a security bond, presented four pieces of passport picture and declared their allegiance to election ethics of 2020. During the approval process, NEC endorsed presidential candidature for ACT Wazalendo’s Bernard Membe and his running mate Omary Mohamed, Chadema’s Tundu Lissu and his running mate Salum Mwalimu, CUF’s Prof Ibrahim Lipumba and Hamida Abdallah Huweishi as his running mate. Others are DP’s Philipo Fumbo and his running mate, Zaina Hamis, Demokrasia Makini’s Cecilia Mwanga and his running mate Tabu Juma. The NEC also approved Mahona Leopard Lucas of NRA and his running mate Ally Khamis Hassan, ADA Tadea’s John Shibuda and his running mate Hassan Kijogoo, ADC’s Queen Sendiga and Shoka Juma as her running mate. The presidential race queue also includes NCCR Mageuzi’s Kulwa Maganja and his running mate Haji Ambar, SAU’s Mutamwega Mgaywa and his running mate Satia Musa, CHAUMMA’s Hashim Rungwe and his running Mohammed Masoud. Other qualified candidates are Khalfan Mohamed Mazurui (UMD), Seif Maalim Seif (AAFP) and Twalib Ibrahim Kadege (UPDP). ACT Wazalendo Presidential contender Membe and CUF candidate Prof Lipumba hailed the election commission for the transparent process but blamed the current Political Parties and Election legislation for blocking political parties from forming coalitions. Mr Membe also announced his party will be seeking collaboration with other opposition parties in the legislative and council seats. His idea was, however, opposed by Lipumba, who recited the 2015-failed coalition involving Chadema, CUF and NCCR-Mageuzi. Mr Lucas said political parties had failed to join forces due to some challenges in the election and political laws. He promised to amend the law to allow political parties to form coalitions. Mr Lucas who will be launching his campaign in Dar es Salaam this Saturday, maintains that he will be conducting a clean political campaign from house to house. Mr Shibuda on his part said he is running for presidency to champion better social services, government accountability, and democracy and enhance the economy. He urged, however, the security organs, judiciary and local and regional authorities to maintain order in accordance with the rule of law. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has been re-elected unopposed as Ruangwa Member of Parliament. According to Ruangwa District Executive Director, Mr Frank Chonya, who serves as Returning Officer, Mr Majaliwa was the only candidate who met all the requirements stipulated by National Electoral Commission (NEC) for the parliamentary candidature. Speaking after the declaration, Prime Minister Majaliwa said: “We, the residents of Ruangwa District, are pretty aware about where we came from and the challenges we face but we are also aware of the level of development we have reached.” He promised to continue serving Ruangwa residents diligently.