ZANZIBAR President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein has opened a modern hotel in Mkoani coastal town in South Pemba, encouraging local and foreign investors to build accommodation facilities in the island, to enhance tourism potentials. In his speech at the opening of Mkoani Hotel, after undergoing major renovations, Dr Shein said there were still huge opportunities to invest in the tourism industry as the potentials in the sector were increasing in Pemba Island. “Visitors who include tourists will need better places in which to stay. If you have good lodges or guest houses and hotels, definitely people will be attracted to visit Pemba,” Dr Shein said at the opening ceremony which also attracted residents and dignitaries. Despite uncertainty over when the Covid-19 pandemic which has affected the tourism industry would vanish in the world, the Zanzibar government has reopened the business with hopes of regaining its vibrancy soon. More than 80 per cent of the Isles foreign currency comes from tourism. Mkoani Hotel, a government owned hotel, was constructed in the early 1970s, but due to mismanagement, it stopped operating in the late 1990s when the government privatized some of its operations. The Mkoani Hotel has been renovated and modernized by ZSSF. Prior to the opening of the Mkoani Hotel, the president visited the ongoing construction of the Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF) building at Tibirinzi area, and similar construction of the Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB) House in Chakechake. “Since the 1964 revolution which freed us from colonialism, we have been building the country successfully. We are proud of the achievements we have recorded so far, and are continuing to improve our buildings. Having new offices, including the ZRB, will definitely improve efficiency,” he said. The Finance and Planning Minister, Mr Mohamed Ramia Abdiwawa, told the audience that the ongoing ZSSF projects didn’t pose a threat to the security of the fund. “Do not worry; your money is safe, and the ZSSF responsibilities are not affected,” he remarked. Mr Khamis Mussa Omar- Permanent Secretary - Finance and Planning Ministry, said: “We should join hands to thank President Shein. His ten-year tenure was marvelous as far as achieving development goals are concerned. Let us wish him a peaceful retirement.”