As the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, I find the launching of the book A Monument to China-Africa Friendship: Firsthand Account of the Building of the TAZARA (Swahili Version) as part of the wider approach of enhancing public diplomacy between our two brotherly countries. This book will not only serve to make Swahili a prominent language around the globe but will certainly help to transcend the deep account about the China-Africa friendship to the majority of Tanzanians who are more conversant with Swahili than English. This will definitely lend a hand in keeping this historical description alive as observed by the late His Excellency Benjamin William Mkapa, former President of Tanzania in his narration found at page 188 of the book. I quote: I think our media ought to look back on history too, not just the present. We must remember how the past has brought us to where we are today. It is very important. Whenever there are anniversaries of the opening of the TAZARA ......, we must keep the memory alive among our people. That’s one thing we have to do.” Reflecting from this extract, I wish to qualify my remarks by making reference to the context under which TAZARA was built. The request to Chairman Mao Zedong, to build TAZARA was made by the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the father of our Nation and Dr. Kenneth Kaunda, the former President of the Republic of Zambia, at the height of the Cold War. It was made at the time when there existed the myth that the settler regimes in the Southern Africa would last forever and as such Zambia would have no outlet to the sea. China offered assistance at the time when every effort was being made to stifle the TAZARA project. This is the extent, in one part, to which China was ready to support the struggles of the people of Africa for economic, social and political development. That position of China has continued to be consistent even today. On the other part, the actual construction of the railway itself was not easy and required a lot of sacrifice from Chinese government and people. A number of Chinese (over 60 Chinese workers) died in the course of the construction. But the steadfastness of China with corresponding commitment of Tanzania and Zambia made the difference. If I were to narrate all the history of TAZARA, I guess, I will not only spend the whole day, but take away the inspiration to read the book especially by the younger generation which is the largest part of the participants I see here today. It therefore suffices to say that TAZARA meant everything as far as the changing of the political, economic and geo-strategic situation of the Southern Africa region is concerned. This great Uhuru railway is indeed an eloquent manifestation of South-South cooperation. It is a history that the younger generation must know in order to emulate the courage and bravery of its founders. They must know in order to carry forward TAZARA spirit and keep it afloat. We must plan to make TAZARA more economically viable, efficient and cost effective. It must become the success story it was meant to be. Opening up those areas it is passing is one way that would help make the railway busy and earn. Therefore we gathered here not simply to celebrate a book launch, but rather to acknowledge the longstanding and prospering relations between our two countries. Tanzania and China are historical friends. Our future is inextricably linked; our economies are complementary; our interests in global stability and prosperity are in sync; and we both believe that any challenge that our two countries face can best be resolved by working together. These relations are witnessed in how TAZARA was built. Despite the years that TAZARA was built was a time in which China’s economy was frail and developing, the TAZARA railway was built in record time. To date, the Tanzania-Zambia Railway remains one of the biggest projects China has ever undertaken overseas and one of its largest aid endowments. As you will be reading the book, I would recommend that you start contemplating and planning for successful future of TAZARA so that it continues to serve our countries and our region as well. (This article is an excerpt of Prof. Palamagamba Kabudi’s speech at the launch of the book ‘A Monument to China-Africa Friendship: Firsthand Account of the Building of the TAZARA’ Swahili Version, held in Dar es Salaam on 20 August 2020.)   