TANGA Fresh Company Limited is facing an acute milk supply from dairy farmers of Tanga and neighbouring Kilimanjaro and Arusha regions. It also buys milk from Morogoro and Njombe regions suppliers. Tanga Fresh Chief Executive Officer Innocent Mushi told a delegation of the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (Bank) led by the TADB Managing Director, Mr Japhet Justine, that their company was currently facing an acute milk supply shortage from its main 6,000 smallholder dairy milk suppliers, primarily in Tanga Region. “We have established small intermediary stations in Tanga, which receives milk from distant suppliers to avoid waste and maintain milk quality before reaching us. However, we are facing a big shortage of milk supply from farmers in Tanga and other regions,” he said, adding that this was a worrisome situation. He said his company was grateful to the TADB for its financial support. TADB financed the establishment of the intermediary stations in Tanga and its continuing modernization and sustainability programme. Mr Justine appealed to Tanga Region to increase the number of dairy farmers. He also appealed to dairy farmers to double efforts so that Tanga Fresh gets enough daily milk supply. “I am appealing to farmers to double efforts in dairy farming. This company offers Tanzania’s milk producers a ready market. I am appealing to our farmers to make most of this opportunity in order to improve their livelihood,” the MD said. The TADB delegation visited the factory because, he said, the bank wanted to remain abreast of what was going on in Tanga Fresh and wanted to know the successes and challenges Tanga Fresh faced. He explained that TADB was a strategic stakeholder in the company’s modernization and sustainability programme. The TADB, he said, gave loans to two cooperative societies that were supplying milk to Tanga Fresh and was considering empowering another 26 cooperatives. Mr Justine called on dairy farmers to form primary cooperative societies to become creditworthy and get loans from TADB and other financial institutions. The MD said Tanzania’s milk plants were capable of processing 150,000 tonnes of milk daily and asked dairy farmers to increase milk production because there was a ready market for their produce. He said TADB cooperates with CRDB, NMB and Stanbic banks offered stallholders soft loans in the agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors.