THE past few weeks have been hectic and breathtaking. We have seen and heard a lot as far as candidates’ selection, in this case a process by which political parties decide, who will be on the ballot paper as their recommended candidate(s), is concerned. Well, even though the process was challenging and thought provoking, it was great. So, the candidates’ selection for the 2020 general election is over. The way in which parties made their choice is not very much of my concern today, because parties’ choice is mainly determined by their own internal rules and procedures. After all, space would not allow for a discussion on selection criteria and structural characteristics of candidates’ nomination in the political parties. My interest today is on the way in which, across the spectrum, the process uncovered the limits of our peoples’ level of faithfulness and commitment to Tanzania. Likewise, nomination, the legal process by which election authorities screen the candidates recommended by the party and approve their candidacy is also over. Taking for example the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) the process was rather unique, unparalleled and interesting, because unlike other parties, thousands of persons indicated that they could potentially stand for election. Obviously the large number of CCM candidates is something which would have made election impossible for voters to make an informed choice among them. So this made CCM, within its on-going internal party reform, to ensure that it remains unshaken, but also useful and necessary gate-keeper during the process of narrowing down the list of candidates to a small enough pool. CCM was keen to indicate that as a party, its journey towards making it stronger than ever before was made a reality. So they fought, in my view, the old accusation that the party used to adopt very undemocratic and elite controlled modes of parliamentary candidate selection is gone. It is good that this time many say there were clear indications that their new system has worked quite well. Yea, many say it went well because the party deployed a more transparent process, with open calls for nominations and applications, open hearings, public interviews of candidates, and open ranking lists. This should have significantly reduced the scope for undue influence. Those who say so are right and it is my hope that the decisions were made with much care, while embracing impartiality, neutrality, integrity and candidates’ competence. Well it was not easy but they did it because among other things the openness of both the presidential and the parliamentary candidates’ selections procedure the party used, showed that parties are vital organisations for democracy. In our case much more important as the general elections in October 2020 approaches. For instance, President John Pombe Magufuli (JPM) and his team stood strongly for the calibre and actions of selected candidates, to mention a few, all of which influence the quality and representativeness of parliament, and subsequently determine the quality of government as ministers start their national political career in parliament. So they chose to abide by official party rules as laid down in their constitution and modified- the commonly known candidates’ selection process, one which made wajumbe prominent. I believe the party selected candidates that best represent the interests of voters and what remains significant is the need to unite all candidates, especially those who were not selected. In following up what was happening in all parties, it is quite realistic to say candidates’ nomination and selection process across all parties has exposed the limits of patriotism. The limits of patriotism I am talking about goes beyond what we saw and heard. I know many would suggest that candidates showed serious commitment and to many a certain degree of courage as they entered the process. Others say there were a large number of party members who decided to run for a seat. The limits of patriotism I wish to reflect is to do with the smell of fraud and corruption along the process. I am concerned about some candidates’ involvement in corruption, an indication of a serious failure to embrace national pride in the context of feeling of love, devotion and sense of attachment to their constituencies and a country at large. Instead of standing for a clear alliance with fellow citizens who share the same sentiment, some candidates simply wanted to use corrupt means to win and thereafter acquire a seat in the parliament. In fact some have been noted to have allegedly used their business interests and networks. This showed how limited the spirit of patriotism was in most of them. It is probably right to say it is shameful to learn of corrupt practices among the candidates while there is, in our country today, every sign that days of cheating, corruption, and unhealthiness are gone. One would have expected a cleaner process simply because the Tanzanian’s fifth government under Hon President John Joseph Magufuli has strongly shaped, fashioned, and produced rather a new anti-corruption culture. Those who hid themselves in corruption so as to be nominated forgot about their loyalty and patriotism, that is looking out for yourself by looking out for your country, said Calvin Coolidge (1872-1933), an American politician and lawyer who served as the 30th president of the United States from 1923 to 1929. Likewise they also forgot that patriotism consists not in waving the flag, but in striving that our country shall be righteous as well as strong, said James Bryce (1838-1922) an Irish-born academic, jurist, historian, and liberal politician. In reality, to use corrupt means in order to seek to be appointed has a serious consequence. In some parties, I think, this may have contributed to popular trust irreversibly declining, if the practice began long ago before the current process. A modern Tanzanian voter would not agree with prospective candidates who started, earlier on, to openly breach the law, allowing corruption to flourish. Voters will show their anxiety. So the nomination process is over. CCM saw the need to derive a new efficient, robust and applicable style for the process. We do not know what will happen. But time will tell as to whether those nominated to represent their party in October will win and thereafter serve Tanzania as patriots, according to Bertrand Arthur William Russell (1872-1970) a British philosopher and mathematician, those who should always talk of dying for their country but never of killing for their country. Cheers! ● Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997