THE first day of the 2020 General Election campaigns was uneventful as flag-bearers fronted by various contesting parties were made to wait for the final National Electoral Commission verdict on the candidature. The National Electoral Commission (NEC) had set yesterday as the date for the commencement of the 60-day campaign marathon, which will run up to October 27, the eve of the voting day. However, the parties and their candidates were apparently forced to wait for the final clearance from the National Electoral Commission (NEC), before they could get their campaigns underway. For the large part of yesterday, NEC deliberated on objections against presidential and parliamentary candidates. The completion of the exercise would pave the way for the cut-throat campaigns. Candidates and voters alike waited impatiently for the NEC to make a final verdict on the candidature of all aspirants, including those who reportedly sailed unopposed. Even after 2200hrs, the NEC was yet to make the announcement on the fate of objected candidates or appeals, if any, from candidates stumbled at the nomination stage. Earlier yesterday, the National Electoral Commission (NEC) issued a stern warning to the media and individuals against issuing of unofficial nomination results. Before the Electoral body had finalised its internal nomination processes, social media was awash with reports that claimed some parliamentary candidates had been elected unopposed. The Commission said the reports totally disregarded the time frame for objection as stipulated in the election laws, rules and regulations. The electoral body, hence, ordered media outlets to respect the powers vested upon it by the country’s constitution and other laws, saying it is the only organ mandated by the law to announce candidates who will battle it out during the October 28 General Election. NEC Director of Elections, Dr Wilson Mahera hit out at a section of the media that published an unofficial list of candidates claimed to have sailed unopposed in various constituencies before the objection period. “By doing so, they are contravening the law and they are likely to plunge the country into chaos because election is a very serious matter which directly affects the lives of some people,’’ he said. Dr Mahera said NEC would not hesitate to take stern legal actions against anybody or media houses which would contravene the law and regulations governing elections in the country. Tanzanians will for the first time vote for Union and Zanzibar presidents, members of parliament, House of Representatives and councillors on a weekday after NEC announced October 28 as the polling day. The government has already declared the day as public holiday a move sought to allow more electorates to exercise their democratic right. According to   NEC a total of 29,188,347 voters have been registered ahead of the October elections including 7,326,552 new voters. There would be 80,155 polling stations, with each station set to cater for not more than 500 voters. A 31.7bn/- budget has been allocated to cover the costs of the October polls, in accordance with Section 122 of the National Election Act.