THE newly signed Young Africans striker, Waziri Junior has promised fans and management to score goals that will enable the former champions to win the 2020/2021 season’s title. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview, Junior said he is very confident with the efforts, solidarity and cooperation with the team’s mates, fans, officials and the technical bench, his championship goal will be attained. ''Actually many teams followed me and needed to work with me but Yanga made the best offer,’’ Junior said. Junior said before joining Yanga SC, he had received offers from Police Tanzania, Namungo FC, JKT Tanzania, Azam FC, Dodoma Jiji FC, Mtibwa Sugar and Kagera Sugar FC as well as Coastal union FC. He disclosed that outside the country received offers from Kenya, Zambia and Equitorial Guinea clubs. Waziri thanked his former team mates (Mbao FC) for their love and support during his time with the team. Waziri Junior has signed for Yanga SC on a two-year contract. Before joining Yanga SC, Junior netted 13 goals and provided three assists during his tenure at Mbao FC. While at Toto Africans FC, Junior scored 14 goals in his two seasons, while at Biashara united he netted four goals in his six matches. Prior to Waziri Junior signing the team’s kit and merchandise suppliers GSM said they were practically fulfilling their pledge made last season that they will be involved in all transfer deals at the club ahead of the next season. This has so far been achieved after completing deals of three domestic players, who are midfielder Zawadi Mauya from Kagera Sugar, central defender Bakari Mwamnyeto (Coastal Union) and left back Yassin Mustapha from Polisi Tanzania. Mwamnyeto’s arrival will help to cement the team’s backline and he is considered as the long-term replacement of veteran defender Kelvin Yondani. Both Mwamnyeto and Mustapha were pillars of their respective teams last season in the top flight league, no wonder they did a remarkable job to enable their sides stay in the contest next season. The two players have since penned down a two years contract each to work for the Jangwani Street based side despite recent criticisms from fans that they should hire a competent technical bench first before recruiting new players. Since the opening of the transfer window by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) last Saturday until midnight of August 31st this year, only two teams Yanga and Azam have been busy on the market, buying what they want prior to the next season. Yanga have also declared that the deals they are accomplishing are in response to the requirements of the team’s technical bench, saying their top priority is to win the top flight league next season.