PRESIDENT John Magufuli was full of praise as he called live to thank artistes and attendees during the massive music concert at a fully packed Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Over 120 performers shared the same stage on Saturday at the venue to show their support to the ruling party CCM ahead of the approaching general elections to be held in October. All major styles from Bongo Flava, Singeli, R&B and Swahili Coast varieties were performed on the day. However, the thrilling concert had to be halted for a while as the party's Ideology and Publicity Secretary Humphrey Polepole climbed on the stage with the call from the Head of State. He said: "I am very happy to the artistes and Dar es Salaam residents. I am watching the unfolding event and what is happening is very big. I wish I was there so that I can also dance a bit. "You are singing good and entertaining songs as such congratulations. To be honest, CCM is their father (babalao)," said Magufuli to the applauding fans inside the stadium. He went on: "I really appreciate all the viewers and our musicians and this is the type of Tanzania I want to build where people live in happiness, peace and unity. I will watch the whole concert night long. There is no problem and I am with you. I am happy to see that Tanzanians know how to dance." It was the first big event this year to bring together such big number of musicians on one stage and the list was long no wonder the concert had to go on until the early hours of Sunday. Other than parading new artistes, the show also resurfaced some old musicians who have been quite in the music industry for a long time like 20 per cent who dished out his good old songs to the cheering crowd. The vibe almost doubled when the founder of Kings Music label Ali Kiba stormed the stage to awake the cheering people with his hot current songs. However, the good thing was that each performer on the day composed a special song in support of the president Magufuli and his fifth phase government. Responding to a question why CCM turn to artistes during the campaign seasons only and thereafter they abandon them, Polepole said that is not true. "We organise big concert like this not only for the sake of the party but rather, it is also a good platform to nurture Young talents. For instance, today (Saturday), almost 70 underground artistes have had an opportunity to perform on this big stage," he said.