THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in Lindi Region on Monday arrested Chadema prospective candidate for Mtama Constituency Suleiman Mathew for allegedly giving a  1.5m/- bribe to National Electoral Commission (NEC) officials in the constituency. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, the regional PCCB boss, Mr Stephen Chami, said the suspect was arrested dishing out 1,540,000/- to the Mtama election and returning officers, to influence them to announce him as the winner for Mtama Constituency in the coming election. "We got the information from good Samaritans that the suspect was planning to dish out 1.5m/- as an advance to the officers and that he would later give them 10m/- after declaring him the winner for Mtama Constituency," Mr Chami said, adding that the suspect was arraigned in court on Tuesday. The Lindi PCCB boss said the information that reached his office indicated that on August 21, this year at around 11 am,  indicated  that the suspect visited the office of the election officer and talked to him about his plan to give him money to share with the returning officer of Mtama Constituency. Mr Chami said the suspect had planned to provide the said money as he retuned his nomination forms on Monday. "The information provided to us showed that the money was meant to influence the returning officer and the election coordinator in Mtama to declare him a winner in the coming general elections slated for 28 October this year," Mr Chami said. Mr Chami warned the election candidates and others  harbouring plans to engage in corruption practices to stop and adhere to the laws of the land. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa last week instructed PCCB to arrest all politicians who would engage in corruption practices ahead of the General Election regardless their political parties and positions. He gave the instructions when he met Lindi region's leaders shortly after landing at the Nachingwea airport on his way to Ruangwa District for a working tour. He reminded the public that giving and receiving bribes was a crime according to the law and that authorities should deal with the vice accordingly. "There are some people who are used to corruption during general elections; this isn't acceptable at all and the government will deal with those who would engage in bribery," he said.