BOXING is getting more exciting evidently with the audience show--up at Uhuru Stadium late Friday, Tanzanians are indeed in love with the game. No matter how big the stadium is, it was not enough to hold all the cheers as they were louder and powerful, anyone who heard it could not resist going and watching. The night was not only about the cheerleaders’ loudness but also Twaha Rubaha’s (Kiduku) punch on Abdallah Paziwapazi (Dulla Mbabe) cheek. Each round was on Kiduku’s advantage, he punched hard and harder upon weak Dulla Mbabe’s guard, it’s clearly he was careless in his defense. At a time I wondered why was Dulla calling for more punches but whenever he received one more punch his leg kept on shaking, I guess he was pretending that Kiduku’s punches were ineffective but from my observation they were indeed strong and could take him to a knockout. The bout was indeed one sided in exception of the seventh round, it was 50-50 to both boxers. Something noticeable is Dulla had more punches at Kiduku’s abdomen which had no points to the judges, but Kiduku’s punches counted as in five punches at least three landed on his opponent’s head. Of course punches at the abdomen have advantages; winding down your opponent to lose his guard opening a chance for an uppercut but when your punches are weak or if your opponent had better train to strengthen his abdomen, these punches becomes a waste. In the Eighth round Kiduku heavily punched Dulla, his punches automatically pushed Dulla at the corner. It was kind of a difficult and disappointing when Dulla was at the corner and you could see him seeking a way to escape. A hug was enough to keep him safe from more punches. Ninth and ten rounds were all in favour of Kiduku. At the end, it was Kiduku was crowned the Tanzania Professional Boxing Commission (TPLB) Super Middle title by unanimous decision. All judges voted in his favor. The victory has added Kiduku a third belt, humble as he has always been he thanked all his fans and organizers of the bout.