TANZANIA is currently witnessing an agricultural revolution of moving from food selfsufficiency to processing and trade by increasing exports in line with the implementation of the country’s Agriculture Sector Development Programme II (ASDP II). The thrust of this ASDP II programme, according to government authorities, is to encourage all regions in the country to embark on increased crop output so as to improve opportunities open to cash and food crop farmers. Prof Siza Tumbo, Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture says agriculture development in Tanzania is pivotal for leading the country to rise up from the current lower-middle-income status and attain an upper-middleincome status. Visiting AGRA-fronted Partnership for Inclusive Agricultural Transformation in Africa (PIATA) supported projects (popularly known as PIATATIJA or solution-based agriculture) in Rukwa and Katavi regions recently, Prof Tumbo hailed agriculture stakeholders (public and private) in the two regions for working together in a partnership known as SUKA Consortium, where for the last three years a number of projects have been implemented to increase incomes for smallholder farmers. “AGRA is supporting Tanzania through ASDP II, which is our current roadmap for agriculture development,” Prof Tumbo said during a field tour aimed at looking at the alignment of private investment in relation to ASDP II priorities. The programme implemented in the two regions has worked on promotion of market- led approach to improve profitability of maize, beans and rice value chains, says Japhet Laizer, a Programme Officer with Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) SU KA Consortium. Prof Tumbo’s field mission assessed ongoing aggregation activities on a rehabilitated warehouse at Nkungwi village in Katavi Region. At Nkungwi, the Village-Based Advisor (VBA) model has transformed farmers to become more efficient and has led to small-scale farmers adopting new technologies. “The implementation of the ASDP II initiative has helped to increase the number of women and youth in farming activities,” says MIICO Development Agency Managing Assistant Director Catherine Malaga. Systemic changes along the value chain through consortium intervention in the twin regions of Rukwa and Katavi have improved structural markets which helped to increase incomes for smallholder farmers, says Laizer. About 338 hub/retail agrodealers were supported with accreditation training from government regulatory bodies such as Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI), Tanzania Official Seed Certification Institute (TOSCI) and Tanzania F ertilizer Regulatory Agency (TF RA). Similarly, 150 rural agro-dealers were supported to open a new agro-shop and rehabilitate a deteriorated one through matching funds to improve accessibility in rural areas. The quality of produce aggregated through the structural market has been increased from 9,533 metric tonnes in 2017 when the programme started to 26,968 metric tonnes in 2018/19. A total of U S$ 65,866,700 worth of produce was transacted through the structural market since the inception of the programme to date as a result of the consortium interventions. F ive new warehouses – three in Rukwa and two in Katavi -- with the capacity of 660 metric tonnes each were built to reduce post-harvest losses, ease aggregation, and enhance marketing activities. More warehouses owned by both public and private sectors were refurbished to connect upstream, midstream and downstream of the food value chain, say official. “W e have seen the partial transformation and improved livelihoods of hardworking smallholder farmers after adapting market-led agricultural production while reducing shocks and stresses, explains Laizer. “At the end of the day, there is Increased staple crop productivity for smallholder farmers. We have strengthened and expanded access to output markets, played a role in reducing farm losses, and increased farm-gate prices to smallholder farmers.” Under the programme, 709 VBAs were trained to cascade improved technologies to smallholder farmers for which the same model was adopted by other development partners to promote sales and adoption of hermetic technologies to smallholder farmers for synergy and leveraging. The multiplier effect of AGRA investment stimulated an increased number of private investments on storage facilities to an additional 25 and a huge increase in collective marketing through aggregation centres from 8,000 metric tonnes in 2017 to 25,929 metric tonnes in 2019. The number of new storage facilities and small and medium enterprises-led agro-processors rose from 28 to 63 from ten sampled SMEs. The trajectory from 2017 to 2019 demonstrates a tremendous increase of paddy as the result of renovated warehouses. For the two years consecutively there is an average increase of 1,204 metric tonnes of paddy aggregated and processed, which is 85 per cent as a result of the increased storage space. This also translates to an increased number of farmers benefiting from the same pool of additional investments. In the SUKA Consortium, F antashiru Enterprises Company managed to increase the processing capacity from 15 metric tonnes to 25 metric tonnes per day with annual aggregation hiked to 5,000 metric tonnes. The firm’s managing director Anwary M. Said noted that the programme helped to do away with maize postharvest losses after supporting improved infrastructure and handling procedures at the facility/ premises. It also helped the company to strengthen business and working relationships with farmer organizations, thus reducing transaction costs and market risk. Previously, the company had lost 14m/- to middlemen who disappeared with the money. “We now enjoy working and fetching farm produce direct from farmer’s organizations who also improved the quality of the grain,” Said noted. Nondo Investors Company Ltd from SUKA consortium is grateful to PiATA-TIJA for the acceleration and push factor on market facilitation to farmer organizations which increased aggregated and processed volume to 1,200 metric tonnes of paddy and 600 metric tonnes of paddy towards the end of 2019. AGRA in Tanzania works with the government and various strategic partners to increase incentives for private sector participation and investment in the agricultural sector while enhancing access to finance and markets, the adoption of climate-smart technologies and the use of inputs (seeds and fertilizer). Its strategy and support for Tanzania from 2017 to 2021 seeks to bring technologies, partnerships, and models to scale up for competitive and inclusive agriculture and in essence catalyze and sustain an inclusive agricultural transformation to increase incomes and improve food security for smallholder farming households.