TANZANIA Bankers Association (TBA) in collaboration with VISA Tanzania yesterday launched a campaign dubbed ‘be smart go cashless’ to promote use of self-service channels, which include the electronic payment. The campaign is being implemented by 45 banks, which are members of the TBA. Speaking during the launch of the campaign, TBA Chairman Mr Abdulmajid Nsekela said the initiative is an important opportunity to educate customers on safety utilisation of available self-service financial services offered by TBA members. He further said with Tanzania self-service channels growing rapidly and the ever-increasing need of offering safe, convenient and affordable, access to banking services across the country will increase.  “Our members have invested heavily on increasing self-services channels and hence it is prime time to engage and educate customer’s available services,” he said.  TBA chairman Mr Nsekela has extended an appreciation to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) and to the merchants accepting cards at their business in support of this campaign. “We highly appreciate the support from merchants in supporting the much needed electronic purchase during this time where safety and convenience is the new norm,” he added. He thanked the government for continuing to encourage Tanzanians to have accounts also TBA members have distributed agents across the country to ensure that people get services easily. On her part, the Country Manager for Visa Tanzania Ms Olive Njoroge expressed  deep commitment in ensuring merchants have access to innovative technologies to make and receive payments. She added that the use of digital technologies from smartphones and wearable to artificial intelligence, is rapidly transforming how people live, work and spend. She said Visa remains committed to the core mission by connecting the world to enable individuals, businesses and economies to thrive, safe and secure payments at the point of sale remain a key focus for Visa. Early this year, Visa introduced Visa Secure (previously known as verified by Visa) an update programme to help make online payment more secure. TBA is a member driven association representing the banking community in Tanzania, with the aim to continue being the voice of the banking sector and assisting in creating a conducive environment for the sector to contribute to economic development of the country.