THE government through the President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG) has recorded an outstanding performance on improving the health sector in the first five years of President John Magufuli’s reign. So far a total of 1,784 health facilities countrywide have been constructed from December 2017 to 2019, the minister said, in an event that was live broadcast yesterday. He said the government has managed to construct new 1,198 Dispensaries, 487 Health Centres and 99 District Hospitals across the country. “All these have helped to improve delivery of health services to Tanzanians, especially in rural areas, and this has saved a lot of lives,” he pointed out. However, Mr Jafo pegged the achievements on determinations and visions of President Magufuli, who has been spending most of his time thinking of Tanzanians. “With these achievements, the government has managed to set a historic record in comparison to the previous regime of 77 District Hospitals and 115 Health Centres, when the fifth phase administration ascended to power,” said the Minister. He further said since gaining independence, the country had 115 Health Centres with surgical services, a figure that climbed to 487 capable of providing surgical services currently. Expounding, Mr Jafo noted that it is the first time; the government has constructed health facilities right in remote areas, where the grassroots’ villagers have been missing them. “When he assumed office, Dr Magufuli among other things, he expressed his determinations to revive the health department under PORALG, and this started immediately and we can now see the tangible results,” added the Minister, while asking staff in his office to continue with the work for interest of the country. In a related development, Mr Jafo commended Regional Commissioners and Regional Administrative Secretaries (RAS) efforts countrywide, which culminated in the funds meant for the communities’ projects being used properly. He said the leaders deserve applaud for working to ensure government’s goals are achieved, and in turn improve people’s lives. “The money that was being issued for construction projects for some years lacked proper supervision and commitment from those in power tasked to monitor them, but it turned out that they (read the leaders) are now responsible,” said Mr Jafo. Acknowledging the role played by District Commissioners (DCs), District Administrative Secretaries (DASs), District Executive Directors (DEDs) and Heads of Departments in all Local Government Councils on making the government’s dreams become possible, the minister said: “Without these people, the work would have been very difficult because all we needed was teamwork, dedication and commitment to ensure improvements in the health sector.” Present at the event, Dodoma Regional Commissioner Dr Binilith Mahenge said apart from constructing new facilities, the government has been renovating  structures and improving old hospitals and  health centres  so that they meet the current demand. On his part, the PORALG’s Permanent Secretary, Eng Joseph Nyamhanga said the achievements are the results of teamwork and dedicated staff of all health departments under the ministry. “We have also been working closely with the Ministry of Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children that is in charge of formulating policies and guidelines on the health sector,” he said.