MUSOMA Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Muwasa) is expected to begin producing surplus clean water from Lake Victoria. This follows the construction of a big water tank and a house booster in Musoma Municipal Council and neighbouring villages. About 8bn/- will be injected into the project, according to Muwasa Managing Director CPA Joyce Msiru. “The project involves the water tank and the house booster and the project is progressing well,” CPA Msiru said early this week. Deputy Minister for Water Jumaa Aweso inspected the project recently and said thousands of households residing on the outskirts of Musoma Municipal Council would start benefitting from clean water supply after completion of the project. “This project will increase water production to 36 million litres, while the requirement is 24 million litres. This means we will have surplus water,” the deputy minister said. Mr Aweso said at least 21 rural villages adjacent to Musoma Municipal Council, especially those from Butiama District, will benefit from the project, thanks to the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli’s leadership for investing heavily in the improvement of water services in the region and other parts of the country. Besides improving clean water supply, completion of the water tank project is also expected to boost Muwasa revenue. Mr Aweso said he was satisfied with the progress of the project, which had reached 65 per cent by the time he toured the site. The deputy minister also congratulated Muwasa Managing Director CPA Joyce Msiru on great reforms the authority had made in recent years. For Example, Muwasa has reached 95 per cent of the population in Musoma Municipal Council, thus attaining the 2015 CCM election manifesto, which stipulates that 95 per cent of urban dwellers should have access to clean and safe water. “In a very special way, I would like to congratulate Muwasa Managing Director CPA Msiru on good performance,” the deputy minister said. CPA Msiru has made history for becoming the first woman to lead Muwasa.