SARDINE artisanal fishing in Lake Victoria is becoming more environmentally friendly as more than 2000 artisanal fishers in Mwanza Region now apply solar technology as opposed to outdated kerosene lamps which are harmful to lake environments and resources. Different stakeholders have shown interest in supporting small scale sardine fishers with fishing technology, thus helping them to get rid of outdated harmful methods of fishing that contribute largely in polluting the lake’s environment. Recently, a German faith based organization, KLJB, donated 43 solar lanterns worth 19m/- to fishing groups in Bwiru and Mkuyuni in the region in a bid to ensure that over 40 fishers in the two areas carry out profitable and smart fishing. “We sincerely thank this organization for supporting our crusade against environmental pollution, as a consequence of artisanal fishers using outdated means which are also rendering them poorer with the passage of time,” said Mr Jacob Ruhonyora from the Tanzania Renewable Energy Association (TAREA). According to him, over 800 solar lanterns worth 380m/- have been distributed to over 2000 artisanal miners since 2015, thanks to Wurzburg City of German which is a city partner of the Mwanza City Council. The application of solar lanterns comes as the government of Tanzania has strictly prohibited the use of kerosene lamps in undertaking sardine fishing as outlined in the New Fishing Regulations of 2009 as amended in 2020. Successful use of the 43 solar lanterns in Bwiru and Mkuyuni will lead to KLJB giving more support in the coming two years of the project’s duration. Using solar technology in sardine fishing is said to be more beneficial and less costly than using kerosene lamps that need to be refilled after short periods, besides the likelihood of explosions during the fishing process. On the contrary, solar lanterns can be used for five years continuously without any major repairs. Danford Kamenya, City Environmental and Cleansing Officer, said using solar technology will ensure clean and safe water as well as protection of lake resources as stipulated in the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goal number six on clean water and sanitation. On her part, Elizabeth Mazige called on the government and development partners to provide more reliable supply of fishing technology to fishers, citing solar lanterns as a timely approach. “I have almost tripled my income since I started using solar technology as opposed to kerosene lamps and I can for sure see a brighter future ahead,” said Mazige who owns three fishing boats.