THE Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal by Kilombero Sugar Company Limited challenging assessment of tax affairs for 2011 and 2012 year of income, including Value Added Tax (VAT) of over 700m/- payable to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Court of Appeal panel led by Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma and Justices Stella Mugasha and Gerald Ndika ruled against the Sugar Company, the appellants, after holding that all grounds of appeal lodged in attempt to fault the decision of the Tax Revenue Appeals Tribunal and the Board lacked merits. During hearing of the appeal, the appellant had urged, among others, that the Tribunal erred by not considering the documents supplied by the appellant at a later stage of the objection proceedings thereby failing to make a determination on a number of issues. It was further contended that the Tribunal wrongly justified a disallowance of 709,870,107/-on which it did not consider all issues, which were raised in the appeal and that the TRA, who is the respondent in the appeal, denied the appellant the right to be heard. However, in their judgment delivered recently, the justices of the appeals court pointed out that the disallowance complained of rose from the appellant's own failure to submit the source of information having been requested to do so. “Thus the proposal objection settlement was upheld. We also hold that the alleged denial of the right to be heard is without merit,” they ruled. According to them, it was evident from the respondent's proposal for settlement of objection that reasons were assigned, which allowed the appellant to respond vide a letter of June 25, 2014. The justices pointed out further that the appellant's complaints basically invited the Court to reconsider, reexamine and review the evidence received and examined by the Board and the Tribunal. “In the absence of any misapprehension of evidence as we have demonstrated we cannot venture into the waters due to the bar under the express provisions of section 25 (2) of the TRA. It was further argued by the appellant that the Tribunal erred by not assessing evidence and coming up with its decision or position on whether or not it was proper for the Board to hold that reasons were given on the assessment made through the request of documents as opposed to the decision. “With respect, we are at loss as to why this complaint has been rehashed as a specific ground of appeal before this Court. Having examined the impugned assessments, we noted that they were backed up with reasons,” the justices said in their judgment. They pointed out that whether the assigned reasons were justified or not was a matter that had to be heard and determined by the tribunals below. “At any rate, we agree with the respondent that the main justification for the disallowance complained of was the absence of sample invoices from third party suppliers to clear the issue as to whether the intercompany transactions in question were at arm's length,” they said. The Commissioner General with the Tanzania Revenue Authority conducted an audit on the tax affairs of Kilombero Sugar Company Limited for the years of income of 2011 and 2012. Such respondent came up with an audit report dated February 13, 2013 accompanied by assessments for both years of income. Having received the report and the assessments, the appellant objected to the assessments by lodging notices of objection dated March 28, 2012 for the two years of income. The respondent, having reviewed the notices, issued a proposal as per two letters both dated May 20, 2014 for the two years of income. The appellant responded to the proposal by letters dated June 25, 2014 and August 22, 2014, which were admitted in evidence. In response, the respondent made final decisions by way of two letters dated January 8, 2015 followed up by assessments. The decisions and assessments were admitted. The appellant was aggrieved by the assessments. Thus, he lodged two appeals before the Board. The Board consolidated the appeals and determined them as one appeal through its judgment of July 1, 2016. Although the consolidated appeal was partly allowed, the appellant was also aggrieved and decided to appeal to the Tribunal.