THE nut has once again refused to crack as Simba and Young Africans fans were made to wait until today, to know which team, attacking midfielder Bernard Morrison will be featuring for next season. Again, the Disciplinary and Appeal Committee of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) failed to announce the ruling on controversy surrounding the validity of Morrison’s contract at Yanga. Morrison, who has since penned a two-year deal with champions Simba SC, is said to have the same contract duration at Yanga set to expire in 2022. Initially, the committee which started to hear the case on Monday failed to hit the final nail on the coffin yesterday on condition that some of the important documents regarding the case are missing hence ordered that they should be available today. In his short media briefing after the meeting, the Committee’s Chairman Elius Mwanjala said the required documents are from the concerned parties in the case (Yanga and Morrison) hence they were assured that the documents will be submitted today. “We wanted to give the ruling today (yesterday) but unfortunately, there is a very important document from either side of the case of which, we have been told that they will bring them tomorrow (today),” Mwanjala said. He added that upon receiving the demanded documents this morning, the committee will reconvene from 10:00 am hence by 1:00 pm, the verdict of the case will be declared. “I can say we have reached at a good phase as far as hearing the case is concerned and that it is a 50-50 situation hence until we get the demanded documents, we will be in a better position to say who wins the case,” said he. He therefore urged people to avoid being misled by information circulating on social media outlets, regarding the case, saying the truth will be announced by the committee. However, the case became hot when Morrison agreed to sign a contract with champions Simba SC at a time when his contract case with Yanga was not yet resolved by the country’s football governing body. Morrison claimed that Yanga forged his signature to make him look like he is their legal player for two years, while in reality; he said that he has no contract with the club as such; he is free to join any team of his choice. The relationship between Yanga and Morrison worsened when he angrily protested after being substituted during the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) semifinals match against Simba as he marched straight to the dressing room ignoring his team’s technical bench. Since then, he missed all the remaining league matches for Yanga last season. Immediately after pictures of the Ghanaian player in Simba kit signing a new contract with the Reds emerged on Saturday afternoon, Yanga quickly responded, saying they will take stern measures for everyone involved in the malpractice as he is still their legal player. Morrison said moving from Yanga to Simba is not a big deal though supporters and management of Yanga are disappointed, saying it is part of football. “They should not see me as a bad person moving from Yanga to Simba. They just need to understand that it is part of football,” he said softly. Morrison added: “I came here to work wholeheartedly and I am aware about the big challenge coming ahead, while playing for Simba in the top flight league and CAF Champions League hence it is better to be prepared. “I do not have any contract with them (Yanga) so I am free to join any club of my choice,” said Morrison confidently.