YOUNG Africans on Monday officially introduced Senzo Mazingiza as the consultant who will play a linking role with LaLiga and Sevilla FC, which are their partners in the transformation procedures of the club. Speaking at a press briefing in the city, the club's Chairman Mshindo Msolla said they decided to hire services of Mazingiza due to his good record in football management. "I know that he is not a stranger to most of you, but we have opted to officially introduce him for his new responsibilities at our club and he is going to be a consultant throughout our transformation processes. "He has already started taking part in various meetings we do conduct with our partners Sevilla and LaLiga. He will therefore be spending most of his time here at the club as well as travelling to Spain for further discussions," Msolla said. Elaborating further, the chairman disclosed that the entire transformation process is unfolding well such that at the end of this month, they will get the first draft of the whole situation which will give a green light for the amendment of the club's existing constitution. "After the draft, we will start procedures to amend our constitution in order to go in line with the requirements of the transformation. "Thereafter, we will hold a meeting with Yanga branch leaders across the country who will later discuss the contents of the draft and the proposed amendment of the constitution with their people for three weeks in order to give a chance for everybody to participate in the transformation procedures," he said. About the ongoing eventful 'SportPesa Wiki ya Mwananchi', Msolla said everything is progressing well ahead of its climax on August 30th at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city. "We will have a friendly match on the day against Aigle Noir FC from Burundi who have already confirmed to come and play the game," he narrated. However, concerning the underway transfer window, Msolla said all the players who were on their radars to get ahead of the next season have been successfully signed. "As of now, we are remaining with two slots for foreign players as we have eight of them as such, members of the club can feel free to contribute money to be used to get the remaining two players before the window closes late this month. "We have deliberately turned to the members because this is their club and if they cannot manage to seal the deals of the remaining two foreign players, they can still do it during the mini transfer window," he disclosed. In his short remarks, Mazingiza pledged that he will 100 per cent commit himself to ensure that the club is transformed and head towards modern management of the game. "We will professionalise it and put systems in place to compete among the best. I am pleased to join this historic club which is one of the oldest in the region," said the former Simba SC Chief Executive Officer (CEO).