SIMBA midfielder Clatous Chama described the signing of Larry Bwalya as a big plus for the club saying he is a great player with massive quality and capable to do a great job. Simba sealed Bwalya's deal on Saturday to shut down rumours that the player was also closely monitored by their traditional rivals Young Africans and was on the verge to join the other side. But speaking via a live Instagram video call from Zambia during an interaction session with his fans, Chama greatly lauded Bwalya's move saying he is very talented. "It was my long time wish to play alongside a fellow Zambian player at Simba and I am glad that my desire has been fulfilled. "He is the best player who is also included in the national team. I will do whatever it takes to make sure that he always feels at home," he said. Additionally, Chama narrated that it can either take him (Bwalya) a short or long period to settle at the club and show his abilities hence he requested patience from Simba fans. Again, the last season's player of the season hailed Simba for signing Bernard Morrison saying it will be good to play together with him next season insisting that it will be a great help combination. Queried about the rumours of possibly joining Yanga, Chama said for now, he has one year remaining on his contract with Simba as such, he respects the current deal. "I am committed to Simba for one year and I hope that discussions for contract extension will start soon. Yanga is a great team too I cannot completely ignore them because this is football and anything can happen," he said. About the oncoming CAF Champions League contest, the midfielder said it is possible for Simba to go beyond the level they reached last season. "As you know, last season, we were ousted from the competition early but now, we need to have a strong team capable to challenge other teams in the competition. With unity, we can do wonders," said Chama who revealed that he is a father of three children. He also pointed out that he feels great to play with skillful players like Jonas Mkude, John Bocco, Luis Miquissone and all Simba players saying they played a big role to make him emerge the best player in the elapsed season.