WITH the kind of mouthwatering UEFA Champions League final that is set in Portugal tomorrow being what it is, there is very little that can be said about local soccer today. Most of the world’s eyes will be focused in Lisbon as Germans and French soccer giants, Bayern Munich and Paris Saint Germain lock horns to get Europe’s new soccer club kings. On the paper, one can say the Germans may slightly have an edge over their French counterparts although the match winner is likely to go either way. The slight edge is provided by Neymar and Mbappe who can provide victory or defeat, in the same measure, through their presence. The two French players can provide success if their colleagues play their hearts out and they can provide defeat if they fail to support the trio. For unlike the French team, the Germans are more compact and play more as a team than their French counterpart and that would very critical tomorrow. The first lesson that can be drawn from the finalists when compared to last season’s all English UEFA Champions League finalists, between Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspurs is that there is more pace and skill in this season’s pairing. One can also say that there is more youth this season than it was last season and that is something that our local football need to take home. The fast, cracking pace coupled with breath-taking skill provided by the finalists from the start of the tournament is what led to the defeats of soccer giants that included Barcelona, Manchester City, Olympic Lyon, Atalanta and of course the reigning champions, Liverpool. But no team appears to have suffered more in this season’s UEFA Champions League tournament more than multiple champions league winners, Barcelona which has led not only to the sacking of the coach, but is also now set for major shakeup and this is perhaps another lesson that our local clubs need to pick a leaf from. Starting with the first lesson, namely, the fast pace provided by the finalists from the start to the final, that is what modern football is now headed to. Locally, the lesson we need to take home is that the world of the slow, passing, flowery football provided in the past by the Brazilian brand of soccer is no more. Believers of such brand that includes, among others, Barcelona and Manchester City, does not work any longer. It may take a team to the last sixteen, but no more. But as we all know, our local clubs cannot produce the kind of fast, cracking soccer as we have witnessed in this season’s UEFA Champions League if we continue to depend on street made players after they have come out of their checkered assembly line. To play the kind of soccer we witnessed in the UEFA Champions League this season, unfortunately we need to produce our own players through soccer academies. And because we don’t have soccer academies worth the name, we need to establish such institutions now instead of fighting, among ourselves, for foreign players as we did recently and we appear set to continue doing! But until and unless we start working on our children in our own soccer academies we will never get where Europe is and that means we will never go beyond the preliminary rounds of any continental club or national soccer championship. This is because all African countries, including our neighbours, have already established their own soccer academies that produce players whose form is more or less similar to what we have witnessed in this season’s UEFA Champions League. The second and last lesson, is of course the sacking and shaking up of clubs like Barcelona, Manchester City and others which fell on the way side also need to be taken into account. Some of the questions we need to start asking ourselves is if clubs like Manchester City, Barcelona are dropping players (for other lower clubs) whose performance cannot in anyway be compared to the crop of players we have, then we need to start thinking hard what future soccer holds for the world. If Messi with the kind of football he has, is no longer be viewed through the same lens he was viewed before the start of the UEFA Champions League, then surely, management of our local soccer clubs need to pull up their socks. But are there any signs, locally, that our local teams are at least heading towards getting near what I have already noted in this column today? I don’t think we are getting there. The best I have seen is that we are still continuing with our old, worn out clichés, narratives about African foreign players.Those are the players we are competing for and against. Those are the players we are showing off to others and not players we have produced ourselves! Just a few months ago, former President, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete warned us about foreign players when he was addressing members of his club, Young Africans. But we don’t seem to have learnt anything from what the former president told us. Who cares anyway? • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through: tagalileattilio@yahoo. co.uk 0754279655