VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has urged financial institutions to increase loans in financing agriculture so that the sector can be modernised to improve production. She made the call yesterday at Nyakabindi Stadium in Bariadi District in Simiyu Region while inaugurating the 27th Nanenane exhibitions, insisting that the sector is vital for supporting efforts to build an industrial economy. “To date, financial institutions have provided only nine per cent of agricultural sector loans to farmers in the country; it is high time the loans were increased to enable them access machinery and equipment for agricultural mechanisation, industrial agro- processing and irrigation equipment,” she remarked. Ms Samia further said it was crucial for the institutions to commence issuing farmers with big loans as agriculture sector accounts for almost a quarter of Tanzania’s gross domestic product. She outlined the benefits of the exhibition as bringing together a wide range of stakeholders and provides opportunities for farmers, pastoralists and fishermen to see and learn the use of best technologies to increase productivity in their operations. This year's theme is 'Agricultural, livestock and fisheries development, choose the best leaders in 2020'. The exhibitions are also taking place in other zones – the Southern Highlands Zone – Mbeya; Northern zone-Arusha; Eastern Zone – Morogoro and the Lake zone – Mwanza; Western – Tabora; Southern zone – Lindi and Central zone – Dodoma. She said of some of the achievements recorded in the agricultural sector included the establishment of Farmers Registration System (FRS) and crop insurance to help the farmer cope with natural disasters and climate change. “As of July 2020, more than 1,325,799 farmers have been registered through FRS; therefore I urge farmers to continue taking part in this important exercise of identifying all farmers in the country to have accurate statistics for the right decisions for this sector,” Ms Samia said. According to her, over the past five years, GDP generated from agriculture (per 2015 prices) increased by 17 per cent from 25.2tril/- in 2015 to 29.5tril/- in 2019, applauding farmers and pastoralists in the country for the job well done. On the livestock sector, she said it contributed 7.4 per cent to the GDP in 2019-2020 compared to 7 per cent in 2018- 2019 and fisheries contributed 1.7 per cent. The VP recommended other areas of focus for improving the agricultural sector as including dissemination of research findings to 7.4 per cent to the GDP in 2019-2020 compared to 7 per cent in 2018- 2019 and fisheries contributed 1.7 per cent. The VP recommended other areas of focus for improving the agricultural sector as including dissemination of research findings to agriculture extension officers so that they can benefit the people as well as adopting irrigation farming as it can adapt to climate change. Earlier, Minister for Agriculture, Japhet Hasunga said the ministry was committed to further as well as improve the fishing industry to increase productivity, including increasing its contribution to GDP. Mr Hasunga said they were committed to ensuring that through the Agriculture Sector Development Programme II (ASDP II), the fishery sector increases production and adopt sustainable fish farming so that the sector can produce more fish and completely eliminate illegal fishing. “There are few and strategic areas in policy review with a view to establishing the Agriculture Act, the establishment of crop insurance, strengthening agricultural markets, strengthening of access to appropriate agricultural inputs and on time. ”During the event, the VP launched two nutrition guidelines which are the Farmer Nutrition Training Manual prepared by the ministry in collaboration with the World Food Programme (WFP) .The guide aims to educate the farmer on how household nutrition, food security and household income can be improved through productive farming. The second guideline is known as the National Guidelines for the Supplementation of Biological Nutrients in Food Products prepared by the ministry in collaboration with Nutrition International. Its purpose is to oversee the implementation of various interventions related to the production and consumption of biologically enriched food products.