SIMBA midfielder Clatous Chama said criticisms and encouragements were the driving force to his outstanding performance in the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) last season. Chama was the only player during the 2019/20 VPL Awards presentation event on Friday night at Mlimani City Hall in Dar es Salaam to bag in two glittering Awards courtesy of his massive work rate last season. He won the prestigious Best Player of the Season plus Best Midfielder Awards as his lucky star continues to shine in the top flight league. For the Best Player of the Season Award, Chama defeated Bakari Mwamnyeto from Coastal Union and Nico Wadada from Azam FC who too had a marvellous output during the previous VPL campaign. On the other hand, the Zambian import playmaker managed to overcome Lucas Kikoti for Namungo FC and Mapinduzi Balama for Young Africans to win the Best Midfielder Award. But in his brief remarks after the event, Chama disclosed that during the last season, he was criticised a lot by people while others encouraged him hence combining the two, he performed well. He also thanked his teammates for their support saying football is not a one individual game but good cooperation from colleagues made him to be great. “Let me also thank God because without him, I could not have managed to achieve all these Awards,” he said. “If I did not put my trust in God, maybe I was going to be ashamed but anytime I receive criticisms, I put trust in God and now, he has awarded me.” Chama said. In other categories, Simba Coach Sven Vandenbroeck won the Best Coach Award beating Azam’s Aristica Cioaba and Namungo FC trainer Thierry Hitimana. The Best Goalkeeper Award went to Aishi Manula for Simba who overpowered Daniel Mgore for Biashara United and Nouridine Balora for Namungo while the Best Defender Award went to Azam’s Nico Wadada. Furthermore, the Best Goal of the season Award went to Mbeya City’s Patson Sigala who defeated Louis Miquissone and Sadalla Lipangile. Sigala scored a sublime goal against JKT Tanzania. The Young Player of the season Award was won by Biashara United’s Novatus Dismas while the Top Goal Scorer Award went to Meddie Kagere who netted 22 goals to defend his golden boot. Again, the Honorary Player Award was presented to the former Yanga player Sunday Manara (Computer) who was the first Tanzanian to play professional football in Europe.