IT will be an epic weekend at Gymkhana oval in Dar es Salaam where Simba Kings and Buffalo Blasters match will open this year’s Advanced Players League (APL) early tomorrow. After the opening game, Royal Rhinos will lock horns with Twiga Titans in the same venue from 2:00 pm. Other two teams in the league are Tembo Stars and Chui Challengers who will play on Sunday from 8:00am at the same venue. The league will be exciting as it has witnessed more than 10 sponsors running it, ready to make the 15 players from each club to enjoy the rhythm of the league. Among the companies that have committed to sponsor the league include; Reliance Insurance, Delta, Westpoint, Spik and span, Tanfoam, Sterling, Computer centre, Hitech Sai, Unity Computers, G1 Security and Crystal Management & Maintenance Services. It has indeed been a blessing to the Tanzania Cricket Association witnessing this large number of sponsors in a single tournament. TCA Communication Officer, Atif Salim has expressed how humbled it is to attain such a big number of sponsors in a single league right after the corona outbreak. “We have always had good support from sponsors in the past but with the pandemic hitting the world earlier this year, the whole world economy got affected.” “We are thankful to the sponsors who have come forward for the love of the game to support TCA in these dire times.” “This enables us to conduct the league at least to 50 per cent of what we had planned earlier in the year. But something is better than nothing and we have immense gratitude towards our sponsors this year.” In this an annual TCA event it will involve all the best players in Tanzania including promising U19 youngsters as well. This is an event that takes place every year and played in 20 overs with six teams formed by 14 players each but this year are 15 players. The players in those six teams were selected in regarding their quality to ensure the clubs are equal and competitive. The first step they took was to send invitations to all the clubs to guide them with the players name for selection and the coordinating committee which finalised the names. As Salim stressed that they know the players personally and their statistics thus balancing the six teams will not be an issue at all but also they will consider age, experience and player commitment.