KAGERA Region is implementing some three mega projects that would enable it generate enough electricity, it has been disclosed. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’, Kagera Assistant Administrative Secretary (Planning and Coordination), Mr Onesphor Bwana said some 541 villages out of 662 in the area, have already been connected with electricity and estimated as 8 1.7 per cent. While explaining how electricity connections increased from 56,671 in 2015 to 89,172 by June 30, 2020, he further said the remaining 121 villages would get power by year 2021. In a related development, Mr Bwana said some mega projects, which include the 80 MW Rusumo F alls Hydroelectricity scheme have todate reached about 60 per cent in implementations. His list cited also the 8 7 MW Kakono-Missenyi and the 16 MW Murongo- Kikagati-Kyerwa projects, which so far have registered 3 6 per cent implementations. Reached for a comment, Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani said the government was committed to ensuring that majority of Tanzanians benefit from the country’s vast natural resources. “I can proudly announce that within a short period most of Kagera villages will be connected to the national grid. Transmission lines from the national grid have so far been extended to Nyakanazi and Itako, and from there, it will go to other parts of the region including Muleba, Bukoba Rural and Missenyi districts,” he said. Recently, Tanzania and U ganda signed another Memorandum of U nderstanding (MoU ) to supply of electricity to villages along the U ganda- Tanzania border. In the main agreement, the two countries resolved that project would take electricity to Nangoma village, located at the Uganda-Tanzania border as well as others on the Tanzanian side. He said that that would be implemented by Rural Electrification Agency (REATanzania) funding the 33 kilovolt electricity at a cost of U S dollars 3 6 ,923 .06. Similarly, Uganda’s Rural Electrification Agency (REA-U ganda) would foot the bill for the construction of 7.5 kilometres of another 33 kilovolt from the border to Bukwali, Gamuli, Bushungulu, Nangoma, Omurushenye, Mizinda and Lukunyu villages at a cost of U S dollars 7 24 ,23 9.06 .