THE National Electoral Commission (NEC) announced has that 18 parliamentary candidates of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM’s) in 18 constituencies have sailed through unopposed. NEC said the names of the lawmakers will now be published in the Government Gazette. According to NEC’s Director of Election, Dr Wilson Charles, the decision followed a series of factors, including candidates from opposition parties being disqualified for missing key endorsement requirements. The newly elected MPs are Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa (Ruangwa), Nape Nnauye (Mtama), Vita Kawawa (Namtumbo), Sagini Abdallah (Butiama), Alexander Mnyeti (Misungwi), January Makamba (Bumbuli), Dr Khamis Kigwangala (Nzega Rural), Zedi Jumanne (Bukene) and Philipo Mulugo (Songwe). Others are Geofrey Pinda (Kavuu), Eng Isaac Kamwelwe (Katavi), Taletale Shabani (Morogoro East), Kalogereris Innocent (Morogoro South), Jonas Zeeland (Mvomero), Elias Kwandikwa (Ushetu), National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai (Kongwa), Ahmed Shabiby (Gairo) and Prof Palamagamba Kabudi (Kilosa). The national electoral agen cy was quick to warn political parties against threatening its officials over alleged disqualification of their candidates. Dr Charles urged candidates to follow procedures in appealing against the commission’s decisions. “NEC is an independent institution and we don’t operate under someone’s interests but we are guided by rules and laws,” he said. According to the director, the released names are in the first batch received by the commissioners. Dr Charles said some NEC officers in Pemba had been threatened by politicians for doing their job during the election process. He urged the officials not to be intimidated by any individuals but discharge their duties in accordance with the election laws. Chadema had complained before reporters in Dar es Salaam that its candidates for legislative posts and those vying for the post of councillors had been disqualified over dubious reasons and demanded that NEC fix the matter. Dr Charles said NEC had its election rules, regulations, laws and procedures that each candidate and political party must follow before, during and after elections. He warned political leaders against interfering with the commission’s responsibilities, as the body was an independent institution and has been always fair in its decisions.