THE Ministry of Education, Science and Technology Deputy Permanent Secretary, Dr Ave Maria Semakafu, has applauded Bridge-Chinese Competition of Tanzania for its role in strengthening bilateral relations between China and Tanzania. Launching the 13th Bridge-Chinese Proficiency Competition of Tanzania in particular Secondary Schools on August 10-12, Dr Semakafu, said the forum apart from providing local students with an opportunity to study Chinese language, it also encourages more Tanzanians to learn the language for development. “I encourage Tanzanian students to participate well and communicate in Chinese, show ability and enthusiasm for better communication, better development, and better partnership between Tanzania and China,” she said. Under the sponsorship of the Education Department of Henan Province in China, the competition brought together students undertaking Chinese subject in seven secondary schools to show their proficiency in Chinese language. Ms Chai Hong, representative of International Department of Education of Henan Province, noted that the annual Chinese Proficiency Competition under the programme of “Chinese Bridge”, offers a great platform for people to share the pleasure and experience in learning Chinese culture. “This competition is the sixth one being hosted in Tanzania, where the first winners would be recommended to join the quarter-final contests in China,” she said. Ms Hong pointed out that in October, last year-Henan Province organized the 12th Finals of Chinese Language Proficiency Competition in some Foreign Secondary School Students with the same programme of “Chinese Bridge”. “126 qualified contestants from 105 countries and regions and gathered in Henan province competing on the same stage and shared their ideas about Chinese culture. They also experienced a cultural tour about the Central Plains in our country,” she said. Ms Hong further noted that the friendship between the two nations lies in the amicable relations of their people facilitated by the language they are promoting. “Since 2015, more and more Primary and Secondary School students in Tanzania have been getting the chance to learn Chinese with the government’s effort to include Chinese as a language in their basic education system,” she added. On his part, Cultural Counselor of Chinese Embassy to Tanzania, Mr Wang Siping, said the programme has been motivating and mobilizing many Tanzanian youths to study Chinese language, which enhances their chances of understanding Chinese culture.