KAGERA Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Prof Faustin Kamuzora has appealed to Tanzanians to drink more coffee for it improves health and builds body resistance against diseases. “When people think of coffee, they usually think of its ability to provide energy boost. However, according to some research, it can also offer some other important health benefits, such as lower risks of liver cancer, type two diabetes and heart failure,” he said recently, while inspecting a coffee curing and processing factory (AMIMZA Company Ltd) premises, located about six kilometres from B ukoba town. He further said coffee contains a number of useful nutrients, including riboflavin (vitamin B -2), niacin (vitamin B -3 ), magnesium, potassium, and various phenolic compounds or antioxidants, which benefit human body in various ways. Equally, Prof Kamuzora noted that in developed countries, people aged between 80-100 years still use coffee and this has helped to improve their health. “It is sad that Tanzanians consume less than five per cent of the coffee we produce locally. This trend should be changed to improve our health and create us more employment. In the next five-year period, we should target at increasing domestic coffee consumption to at least 15 per cent,” he said. However, the RAS advised the company to start a coffee café in B ukoba Municipal Council, where the public would be sensitized on the importance of drinking coffee. Commenting, AMIMZA Company Ltd Managing Director, Mr Amir Hamza informed Prof Kamuzora that although currently, the factory was undergoing massive expansion, it would soon be able to employ between 200-400 locals as permanent employees and 6 00-1,000 as casual labourers. “We are focusing on increasing production capacity… buying between 70,000-8 0,000 tonnes of cherry coffee direct from Primary Cooperative Societies. Currently, the factory produces around 6,000 tonnes of sprayed dried instant coffee powder making AMIMZA the biggest coffee curing and processing factory in Eastern and Central Africa,” he said. On 2nd January 2017, President John Magufuli directed the Ministry of Agriculture Livestock and F isheries, together with the administration of the Kagera region, to immediately work on eliminating unnecessary taxes in the coffee sector. He said that the sector was facing almost 30 different taxes and fees levied on the farmers, which were unnecessarily weighing them down. According to Tanzania Coffee B oard (TCB ), domestic coffee consumption is growing at an average of between 1.5 and 2 per cent per year especially in urban areas, though coffee drinking culture is still down. The annual per capita coffee consumption in the country is 0.06 kg, and only seven per cent of the country’s total coffee production is consumed domestically and worldwide, though experts estimate that coffee consumption globally is around 2.25 billion cups per day.