NMB bank on Tueday opened Mlimba branch, in Morogoro Region that would assist the locals, especially traders with financial services, saving them from walking with cash money for about 150 km to the nearest bank. The NMB Acting Chief Retail Banking, Salie Mlay said the move was in line with the government and their financial institution policy of taking services close to the communities. “The government policy of improving lives and services of Tanzanians is part of what you are seeing here today. There was no branch around of NMB to address your financial challenges, but now this is a reality,” he said. Mr Mlay further noted that NMB would continue to improve its services especially products, where so far it has opened 226 branches countrywide, and in Morogoro in particular that would be the 12th as they strive to reach all corners of the country. On his part, NMB Eastern Zone Manager, Dismas Prosper said as they were unveiling the new branch, his bank has released about 55m/- from its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to assist community projects especially in education and health sectors in Kilombero District. Expounding, he said the bank in particular donated iron sheets towards the roofing activities at Kalengakelu Secondary School in Mlimba Division worth 5m/-. Commenting at the occasion, Kilombero District Commissioner, Ismail Mlawa, said the bank opening the branch would be another chapter for the business community to exploit and grow as they contribute in raising the country’s economy. While thanking the bank for the move and supporting Kalengakelu Secondary School with the iron sheets, he said the institution was still facing shortage of dormitories for girls, whose completion would minimize their to and from walking distance to the school. However, one of the traders, Joyce Chaula thanked the bank for drawing them bank services close to them, saying it would minimize ambush and waylay that was routinely disturbing them to the extent that some were losing their lives.