DESPITE lacking the power of speech and being deaf, Tatu Kondo is much passionate to serve the community through her counseling. She works with the Care and Treatment Clinic (CTC) department of Tumbi Hospital in Coast region. She faces the challenge of communication to her clients since they have no knowledge of sign language. For a client to understand, he or she must look the way her lips play during conversation and respond in slowly. When such an approach proves difficult for her clients, Kondo resorts to writing although this type of communication consumes much time. She revealed this recently in Dar es Salaam during a “Code of Ethics, Disability Mainstreaming and Disability Models training to Reproductive Health Service Providers”, which was organized by the Voice of Disabled Women in Tanzania (VODIWOTA). “But the situation becomes worse when my client appears to have no writing and reading skills. This pains me a lot for I do not want anybody to miss my services. What next is for the client to wait for my colleagues to help,” she said in an interview. Speaking on where she acquired the counselling skills, Kondo said after completing her secondary education at Vituka Secondary School in Dar es Salaam in 1999 she succeeded to be among students who were selected to join a special test and counseling programmes offered by the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF). Having been jobless after completing her counseling programmes, she decided to volunteer at the Care and Training Centre. She thanks the Tumbi hospital administration that values her contribution and pays her a little amount of salary to enable her meet transport costs. “I’m also thankful that I have some skills compared to my relatives who are also disabled and lack skills. We are nine disabled children in our clan. It is an inherited disability from our paternal generations,” she said. Ms Kondo urged the government to offer her permanent employment, basing on her long-term service at Tumbi since 2008. She also appealed for the introduction of sign language training to all health service providers so as to smoothen the services for disabled people. “I appeal to health service providers to adhere to ethics as some have been deliberately discriminating disabled people simply because they are unfit. Workshop participants conquered with her, saying that sign language training is of paramount importance since ethics direct that the patient’s health problems should remain the secret between him/her and service providers. “Very unfortunate, most people with special needs are usually accompanied by relatives to hospitals. The person accompanying the patient shouldn’t in any way know what is wrong with the sick person. But we fail to escape this situation as it is the person accompanying the patient who can easily communicate with both sides (patient and service providers). Automatically the patient’s secret goes public as simple as that,” said a participants from the Mwananyamala hospital, who requested for anonymity. She stressed that in most cases, health service providers are uncomfortable to expose the patient’s secret because it is unethical. However, the communication barrier between the two sides compels the patient’s secrets to be exposed. She recommended in-house sign language training to all health service providers. A participant from Temeke hospital, who also requested to remain anonymous, said communication barriers between disabled people and service providers can cause poor prescription to patients. “Sometimes patients come to hospital alone… that is when misunderstanding comes between the patients and the service provider. In general, disabled persons do need special care and sometimes should be separated from other groups when health service provision takes place,” she said. She said disabled expectant mothers should have separate maternity wards equipped with automatic adjustable beds. “I appeal to the government and stakeholders to continue setting special infrastructure in hospitals for people with disabilities,” she said.