THERE are many who lament the expansion of the concrete jungle in urban areas with little concern that urban citizens need green spaces to enjoy their life in the rapidly growing cities. However, some remedial action has been initiated in the city of Nairobi. At least three publications have addressed this subject in the past week. One is an editorial in the Sunday Nation (August 16, p. 14) which is titled: “City Green Spaces Vital”. The second one is penned by a regular columnist of the same paper (p. 36). It is titled: “Green Spaces Key to Improving Mental Health”. The columnist hails what is currently going on in Nairobi and argues that a city planned with mental health in mind will ensure: “the availability of plenty of green open spaces, relaxation spaces and benches, pedestrian walkways, cycling lanes, safe road designs and environment-friendly building designs. However, our attention was focused on the on-line publication of August 14 entitled: “Uhuru officially opens Michuki Memorial Park”. When launching the rehabilitation of this large park in Nairobi, President Uhuru Kenyatta is reported as saying: “We are here to affirm that a city is not great because of its lofty and towering ‘brick-and-motor’ assets. A city is great because its citizens are great; and its environment is great”. As you have guessed it right, the phrase “brick-and-motor”, drew our attention. What did the writer have in mind? For, one of the major headaches facing urban managers, is the quantum growth of motor vehicles causing serious traffic congestion. So, was the writer, concerned about concrete (brick) and vehicles (motor)? Given that he is talking of lofty and towering brick-and-motor, chances are he is not thinking about motor vehicles. Towards the end of the article, Uhuru is reported to have referred to a “green renaissance” in other urban areas or countries in the world which are fighting “concrete encroachment” and tackling the adverse effects of the expansion of ‘brick-and-motor’ assets in the cities”. Much as the phrase “brick-and-motor” is used twice, we believe that the writer had “brick-and-mortar”, in mind, the meaning behind this being “existing as a physical building”. Those of us who are entrusted with managing our exponentially growing urban areas may want to borrow a leaf or two from Nairobi and ensure the existence and maintenance of green spaces over concrete spaces. Let us green Dar, Dodoma, Morogoro, Tabora, Mwanza, Mtwara, Lindi, Songea, Mbeya, Iringa, Sumbawanga, Tanga, Moshi, Arusha, Kigoma, Shinyanga, Bukoba (especially along Kanoni River), and other urban areas in the country, large or small. That is the anchor of maintaining livable cities. Like Nairobi, all our urban areas should aim at being “green cities in the sun”. In the same Sunday Nation is an article on Covid-19, entitled: “Virus Crisis: the straws that we are clutching on”. The writer refer to: “stories ‘doing round’ on social media about how people with Covid-19 nursed themselves back to health using a concoction of lemon ginger and other spices”, and she is wondering how, the touted Russian vaccine “will fair”. Stories “doing round”? No. We believe the writer had “stories doing the rounds” in mind. Since “doing the rounds” is an idiom, our hands are tied. We cannot change it to suit our temperament. How will the Russian vaccine “fair”? No. It is also a “no” for the sentence (on the same page) reading: “Test yourself and see how you ‘fair’”. In both cases, the writers (they are two) fell victim of the existence of homophones – words with the same pronunciation but different meanings, origin or spelling: in this case, “fare” and “fair”. “Fare” is what the writers should have used. The verb “fare” means: “perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a period of time”. I hope you find this, a fair observation. Only time will tell as to how the Russian vaccine against Covid-19 will fare! lusuggakironde@gmail.com