PROCEDURAL irregularities have saved convict of rape Cleopa Sospeter from remaining behind bars for 30 years for allegedly raping his 90-year-old grandmother. This follows the decision of the Court of Appeal to quash and set aside all proceedings after the last prosecution witness who testified during trial before the District Court of Dodoma and all subsequent proceedings in the High Court at Dodoma Registry. A panel led by Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma and Justices Stella Mugasha and Mary Levira ruled in favour  of the appellant, when considering his appeal he had lodged to challenge the findings of the District Court and that of the High Court. “We order the record be remitted to the District Court for prosecution to close its case and thereafter for the trial magistrate to address the appellant in terms of Section 231(1) of the Criminal Procedures, Act,” they ruled. According to the justices, Section 231(1) of the Criminal Proceedings Act is crystal clear that before the accused person makes his defence, the trial court is mandatorily required to address him on his rights and the manner in which he shall make his defence. “Failure by the trial court to comply with the provisions of Section 231(1) of the Criminal Proceedings Act, which safeguards accused persons' right to fair trial, is a fatal omission. As a result, we agree with the prosecution that the procedural irregularity calls for our intervention by way of our revisional jurisdiction,” they said. During hearing of the appeal, the prosecution had contended that at the close of the prosecution evidence in support of the charge of rape, the trial magistrate did not comply with mandatory provisions of Section 231(1) of the Criminal Proceedings Act on salient matters. Such matters, according to Senior State Attorney Nassoro Katuga include failure by the prosecution to close its case at the close of its evidence in support of the charge. He submitted that, apart from not making a ruling on a case to answer, the trial magistrate merely concluded that there was sufficient evidence against the appellant, without explaining to the appellant the substance of the charge of rape facing him. The third issue related to the appellant was neither informed by the trial magistrate of his right to give evidence on his own behalf nor his right to call witnesses in his own defence. Particulars of the charge were that on January 28, 2017 at Msamalo Village of Chamwino District in Dodoma City, the appellant had carnal knowledge of a 90-year-old woman without her consent. Facts show that at the night of the fateful date, the complainant, who had a running fever, was at home sleeping. One of her grandsons she identified in Kiswahili as "mjukuu" who happened to be the appellant, passed by to find how his grandmother was progressing. “I am still not very well,” she replied. But in a surprising turn of events, the complainant said the appellant moved to her bed and began touching her. With one hand massaging and tickling her head, the other hand was stripping off her clothes. The appellant proceeded to have sexual intercourse with her by force. Because of her illness, she could neither raise an alarm nor offer any resistance. It was only when the complainant's daughter came into the room and put on light, only to see the appellant having sexual intercourse with his grandmother. She raised an alarm attracting villagers. Incensed villagers were about to begin attacking her grandson who was naked, and she intervened to let him dress first. The village executive officer arrived at the house and apprehended the appellant. The appellant denied in his sworn defence that he had ever committed the offence. He recalled that day he had indeed visited his aunt's residence where he found his grandmother was unwell. Because it was raining, her grandmother advised him to postpone his departure until the following morning. He appellant expressed his surprise, that while still in his grandmother's room, she had closed the door from inside and raised the alarm. When the villagers arrived, she told them that there was an unknown man inside raping her mother. When the door was opened the villagers began to assault him, pushing him back inside as the door was being closed.