THE recently held Vodacom Premier League (VPL) 2019/20 Awards presentation event was another challenge for domestic players to rise and fight hard to claim the most decorated prize of all, The Best Player of the Season. To become the Best Player of the Season, it means your performance in the league was extraordinarily outstanding such that no other player from all the competing teams had a good season like you. As such, that is exactly where the unique part of becoming the Best Player of the Season hails from and elsewhere in this world, to win such accord for a football player is priceless and it also helps to add value to one’s football career as far as his profession is known. In this case, Simba SC midfielder Clatous Chama, undoubtedly, deserved this respectful Award courtesy of his total input on the pitch throughout last season and to be honest, one could easily see a gap in matches which Simba played without Chama whereby their performance was unsatisfactory. The Zambian midfielder proved without doubt that he is the most important ingredient in the Simba squad to the extent that since football is an open game, then everybody is aware how potential Chama is. People will now be closely monitoring his performance next season to see if he will be able to replicate last season’s work rate or perhaps, other players will take up the challenge and defeat him for the top prize in the game. Leaving that aside, it should also be remembered that Chama was the one who scored decisive goals to drive Simba into the group stage and quarterfinals of the CAF Champions League, a feat which the club admitted that they never thought to reach as it surpassed their expectations. Chama, what a Player. The multi-billion dollars question is that, can Chama be able to seize the best player of the season prize in his native country (Zambia) football league? Maybe Yes, maybe No. However, for the next season, everyone would be pleased to see a Tanzanian player marching forward to receive the Best Player of the Season Award which as already said, is the most prestigious title of all the Awards given at the end of the season in all elite football leagues. By achieving that, every Tanzanian will really be happy and this could be a turning point for the country’s players to start believing in themselves and have the highly demanded self-esteem to do wonders on their home soil. Moving on, another area for domestic players to fight for during the next VPL campaign which expects to hit the ground on September 6th is the issue of goal mouth action which produces the golden boot winner. For the second time in a row, the golden boot award has once more crossed the boundaries and goes all the way to Rwandan Meddie Kagere for champions Simba who pumped in 22 goals. It was just unfortunate for him that he failed to surpass his own goal scoring record he stamped during the 2018/19 season where he converted 23 goals. Perhaps, if he continued to be featured in most of the games especially those played to wrap up the season, he could have scored more but, he was sidelined and his post was taken by skipper John Bocco. Anyway, congratulations to Kagere who also had a glittering season but next term, he definitely needs to be given a big challenge from the domestic players for them to net as many goals as him or else, due to his remorse at the goal mouth, he will defend his top goal scoring honour for three seasons back to back. Everybody will be keeping his or her fingers crossed to see a Tanzanian player emerging as a top goal scorer and do away with the shock of seeing the golden boot crossing boundaries at the end of the season. For now, it is not a hidden fact that teams have strengthened their respective squads by recruiting potential players they think will make an impact during the approaching campaign. In a nutshell, one can confidently declare that the level of competition next term of the league will definitely be applaudable even though the number of competing teams has been slashed from 20 to 18 teams. As the last season failed to produce a top scorer to break the set up record by Mohamed Hussein ‘Mmachinga’ who netted 26 goals in a single campaign, who is then fully armed to erase that record for the next term? Is he going to be a Tanzanian or a foreigner? Which team will he emerge from? All these are questions which can easily be answered as the league heads to a finishing line but for the time being, nobody can really come up with a concrete response.