THIS year marks the 50th anniversary of the ground-breaking of TAZARA and the 45th anniversary of its operation. We have achieved what we wish. The Embassy of China in Tanzania, in collaboration with Mkuki na Nyota Publishers, published the Swahili version of the book A Monument to China-Africa Friendship: Firsthand Account of the Building of the TAZARA. As the largest turnkey foreign aid project that China has ever financed and undertaken abroad, TAZARA is not only a ‘railway of freedom’ supporting the independence of eastern and southern African countries, but a ‘railway of friendship’ symbolizing the ever-lasting amity between Chinese and African people. TAZARA occupies a very important position in the history of China-Africa relationship and South-South cooperation. Both Chinese and Tanzanian leaders attach great importance to TAZARA. In 2013, when Chinese President Xi Jinping paid a state visit to Tanzania, he made a special trip to the Cemetery for Memorable Deceased Chinese Experts Assisting Tanzania to pay his tribute, and stressed that we should carry forward the TAZARA spirit, forge ahead into the future, keep up with the times and make the towering tree of China-Africa friendly cooperation flourish and bear more fruits. Last year, when inspecting TAZARA Dar es Salaam Station, Tanzanian President John Pombe Magufuli said, “We cannot abandon TAZARA, which is a good idea of the founders of Tanzania and Zambia, elderly Nyerere and Kaunda”. He emphasized that TAZARA is in the memories of the two nations’ founding fathers, and that it will never die! It’s fair to say that the TAZARA spirit forged by our elder generations during the construction of the railway, is an invaluable historical treasure of the Chinese and African people. Hence, it should always be remembered and carried forward. The TAZARA spirit carries the unremitting pursuit for fairness and justice by China and Africa. The original aspiration of building the railway is to support the national liberation movements and economic independence of Tanzania, Zambia and southern African countries. The request for assisting Tanzania and Zambia to build TAZARA was first raised by the first President of Tanzania Mwalimu Julius Nyerere during his very first visit to China in 1965. At that time, China was facing great economic difficulties with a per-capita GDP of less than 100 US dollars. However, Chairman Mao Zedong, Premier Zhou Enlai and other Chinese leaders made the historic decision, without hesitation, to help build TAZARA. China, Tanzania and Zambia rose to such challenges as adverse natural conditions, and obstruction and sabotage by a few countries. In less than 6 years, the construction of the 1,860.5 kilometers railway was completed, making an indelible contribution to the fight against imperialism and colonialism as well as the development and prosperity of the African continent, particularly the eastern and southern Africa. The TAZARA embodies the essence of China-Africa relationship, which is characterized by treating each other as equals and mutual assistance in difficult times. To build TAZARA, China had dispatched over 50,000 engineers, technicians and skilled workers, put into use a large amount of engineering machinery and equipment, and made a huge number of design drawings which could fill two luggage compartments of a train. Over 160 workers, including more than 60 Chinese, sacrificed their lives in building TAZARA. These figures have shown to us the spirit of the Chinese and African people striving together to create miracles. It is worth mentioning that in building TAZARA, the Chinese workers lived in the temporary work sheds built by themselves, and worked side by side with their Tanzanian and Zambian brothers. They had never asked for special treatment. Facts have proved that TAZARA has not become a tool of China to control Tanzania and Zambia as some foreign media alleged. On the contrary, it has become a symbol for mutual support and independently determining their destinies by the Chinese and African people. We are glad to see that the TAZARA spirit shows that China and Tanzania, China and Africa have been a community of a shared future, and that the core principles of the TAZARA spirit have remained unchanged till today. Actually these principles are reflected in various aspects of China-Tanzania cooperation. Facing the challenge of unilateralism and disregard of basic international norms, China and Tanzania stay committed to building a fair and equitable international political and economic order, and advocating multilateralism and win-win cooperation in such important international organizations as the UN Security Council, the UN Human Rights Council, the World Trade Organization and the World Health Organization. Facing the challenge of bullying, double standards and wanton interference in other countries’ internal affairs, China and Tanzania keep respecting and supporting each other by upholding the right of any sovereign state to explore the development path that suits its national conditions and to safeguard its national sovereignty and dignity. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that China and Tanzania have been supporting each other and fighting shoulder to shoulder against the global pandemic of COVID-19. At the height of China’s battle with the coronavirus, the Tanzanian Government and its people stood firmly with China, and expressed their support in international occasions for China’s anti-epidemic efforts. Likewise, when Tanzania was struck by the virus, China was the first to rush in with assistance. The ongoing infrastructural projects in Tanzania undertaken by Chinese enterprises have not been suspended for a single day since the outbreak of the coronavirus. It is my deep feeling that against the backdrop of the profound changes in the international situation, the continuous rise of hegemonism and unilateralism, the negative impact of COVID-19 on the world economy, and the major challenges facing all countries in the world, the significance of carrying forward the TAZARA spirit has become more prominent for China and Tanzania to develop their comprehensive partnership and to build a closer community with a shared future.  