IT’S a pre-season warm up, but to red-hot Simba it is a time to hand blitz to their foes as evidenced in their yesterday’s 180-minute onslaught. Simba, the league’s champions, fired home 8 goals in their two matches against Kinondoni Municipal Council FC and Transit Camp at Uhuru Stadium. Simba defeated KMC 3-1 in their first match  staged early in the morning before securing a hefty 5-2 in their second match against Transit Camp at the same venue. It was Clatous Chama who opened Simba’s goal account in the 28th minute before Ibrahim Ajib doubling the lead in the 33rd minute while Mzamiru Yassin netted the third in the 57th minute. Newly signed Cyprian Kipenye scored a brace when Simba clobbered Transit Camp. Kipenye scored the first goal in the 4th minute before adding the second in the 24th  minute. Other scorers were Charles Ilanfya who scored in the 19th minute, Medie Kagere in  42nd  minute and Gadiel Michael wrapped the goal festival with the fifth goal in the 79th minute. All three; Ajib, Chama and Ilanfya also scored when Simba pulverized Vital’O of Burundi. The goals they scored yesterday were very spectacular and if they maintain this consistence in the coming season they will indeed make a huge impact in Simba squad. What made Simba look superior to their opponents in their both matches was arguably good team work basis that included coordination, speed and accuracy, three things that helped to win impressively. If Simba maintain this form, they will be better than the team of last season. Last Saturday Vital’O from Burundi were the first casualties of Simba’s crushing machinery after a 6-0 drubbing at Benjamin Mkapa stadium in Dar es Salaam. On KMC side there are a lot that need to be worked on as they have now lost two games, where on July 26th, they lost 3-1 to Mbeya City. KMC will face Azam today at Azam Complex. In last game, Azam FC won against Namungo by 2-1. It was the most exciting game over the weekend as both teams showed the fans a world class performance. Meanwhile, this Sunday Young African Sports Club will play against Aigle Noir Makamba FC from Burundi at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. The game will grace ‘Wiki ya Mwananchi’ with a performance from Bongo Flavor icon Rajab Kahali 'Harmonize' who will be a leading singer, on the day together with other artistes so as to spice up the annual event.