THE Police Force is getting ready to ensure peace and tranquility before, during and after the forthcoming general election. Intelligence Commissioner Charles Mkumbo, who was in the Northern Zone recently to inspect the preparedness of the Police Force as the date for political party campaigns was approaching, said all stakeholders should cooperate to ensure the election was held peacefully and was free and fair. Speaking to police officers, reserve force members and guards from private security companies, he said all of them had one target – to ensure peace prevailed in the country and all areas were safe and voters got time to assess the policies and promises of different contesters and election manifestoes so that they could make informed decisions. “If the situation is not calm, the voters will not follow up election campaigns, assess the policies and promised made by the contesters and their political parties and make informed decisions on who to elect and be able to vote peacefully,” he noted. He said the Police Force had decided to start joint training early to ensure all law enforcers and private company guards acted as one family of state organs. He said citizens should also be united to make the election successful. He explained that the police would deal with individuals who would be involved in riots or those who would cause any public nuisance. He said anybody who contravened the law would be dealt with to endure the electoral process started and ended well. He assured all political parties of fairness as the police would be protecting all election stakeholders and their properties and no contester or political party would be favoured. “What is needed is for every citizen to abide by laws and regulations.” For his part, Manyara Regional Police Commander (RPC) Paul Kasago said he was hopeful that all citizens in the country would show civility as it was what many Tanzanians were. He was optimistic that the contesters would demonstrate integrity and discipline so that the law enforcers did not have to use any force to maintain law and order. “We ask citizens to trust the Police Force. We will not favour  any contester or political party. All are equal before us, we are everywhere and it is our hope that the election will be conducted freely, fairly and peacefully,” he said. The RPC explained that he was happy with the way the youth conducted themselves in the region. He said there was cooperation among all state organs and they were well-prepared for the election. He called on the electorate to maintain peace before, during and after the electoral process.