THE National Service Chief, Major General, Charles Mbuge on Tuesday said that the construction of the Mosque at Chamwino in Dodoma will be completed in three months’ time. He gave the assurance after receiving additional 30m/- from the Inter-Religious Peace Committee of Tanzania. He said the fund would top up the initial 48m/- that raised on Sunday by President John Magufuli as he vitalized the existing cordial Christian-Muslim relationship using a Church event to raise funds for the construction of the Mosque. Major General Mbuge also showered praise to President John Magufuli for trusting and tasking the National Service to undertake the job. The fund raised on Monday was handed to the National Service by Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Bilinith Mahenge on behalf of the inter-religious peace committee for the construction of Chamwino mosque. The National Service Chief said they will as well donate 5m/- for the same mission. President Magufuli during the last Sunday event said religion should not divide people into religious factions, thus, initiated the fundraising to bankroll the building of a mosque at Chamwino area. Presiding over the official launching of the Mary Immaculate Parish in Chamwino, Dodoma, the Head of State managed to raise 48m/-, 48 bags of cement and five lories of sand. “This church we are inaugurating today was constructed by using contributions from believers and non-believers, the bottom line here is that Tanzanians from all walks took part in the construction of this house of worship,” he said. He, thus, asked believers to contribute for the construction of the Mosque, so that Muslims could as well have their own place of worship, saying that would symbolize the existing unity and solidarity among Tanzanians. Major General Mbuge said that his team has already started assembling materials ready for the job. On his part, Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Mahenge thanked all who contributed for the project, saying more pledges are still welcomed.