HASSAN Mwakinyo will step on the ring tomorrow to face the undefeated Congolese boxer Tshibangu Kayembe in fight for vacant World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental Super Welterweight title at Mlimani City in Dar es Salaam. On the same big day at the venue there will be many supporting bouts. Tony Rashid from Tanzania will face Tinashe Mwadziwane from Zimbabwe in the race for African Boxing Union (ABU) Super Bantamweight title. The Tanzanian star, Mwakinyo has fought 19 bouts, winning 16 fights and losing in two others. His last game was against Arnel Tinampay from Philippines where he won by points at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Mwakinyo has won 11 knockouts and lost once on May 14th 2016 to Shaabani Kaoneka. One of his best known victories was in 2018 over the former European Champion Sam Eggington which was fought in England at Arena Birmingham stadium. The Congolese Kayembe has fought 12 bouts winning nine, drew thrice and has not lost any fight before. He has fought all twelve bouts at home Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and won two titles, that are; Universal Boxing Organisation (UBO) Africa Super Light Title and International titlist. His last bout was on August 25th 2018 against Cosmas Cheka from Tanzania and he was able to take him down by technical knockout (TKO) at Grand Hotel de Kinshasa in Kinshasa. He had another successful game against Mamadou Kulibali from Mali where he won by knockout. According to Secretary General of Tanzania Professional Boxing Regulatory Commission (TPBRC), Yahya Poli, everything was in place at Mlimani City. “I am thankful, the preparations have gone well and we are happy that Tanzania will stage this big fight. We are praying and hopeful that the title remains in Tanzania with Mwakinyo. I call upon all Tanzanians to come and cheer for our boxers, as it will encourage and strengthen the bout.” “There will be a total of twelve fights involving 24 boxers, where four of the boxers are female boxers. The bouts are scheduled to begin at 03.00pm at Mlimani City. The cost of tickets begin from 10,000/-, 20,000/- and 50,000/-.” Kayembe arrived in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday night at Julius Nyerere International Airport and was welcomed by the Secretary General of TPBRC together with other organisers of the boxing game. Both boxers, Mwakinyo and Kayembe have also called upon fans to show up and witness a powerful and professional contest from the two whereas each boxer promised to take down his fellow opponent. Both are sure that their training was enough and will be spectacular. Prior to these two big fights there will be 11 preliminary bouts in which two of the bouts will involve four female boxers in the country. They are Stumai Muki who fight Leila Yazidu and Haidari Mchanjo who will face Baina Mazola.