MAINLAND giants Simba completed their mission of winning three titles this season, after beating Namungo 2-1 in the final of Azam Sports Federation C up (ASFC ) at Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga, Rukwa yesterday. Luis Miquissone put Simba ahead midway in the first half before John Bocco stretched the lead few minutes before the break. Namungo pulled one back in the second half through Edward Manyama. The victory saw Simba winning their third silverware this season— Community Shield following a 4-2 win over Azam FC in October last year, lifted the Mainland Premier League title and completed their mission with the yesterday’s title. Despite losing, Namungo will be the country's envoys in CAF Confederation League next season. This is because Simba will fly high national flag in CAF Champions League (CAF CL) for winning Mainland Premier League. Simba and Namungo will also face off in the Community Shield encounter later this year, to signal to opening of the 2020/2021 Mainland Premier League season. For winning the Cup, Simba were awarded 50m/- by the tournament main sponsors Azam. They were also presented with the trophy by the Deputy Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Juliana Shonza. Simba’s creative attacking midfielder, Clatous Chama was declared as the tournament’s Most Valuable Player (MVP) and he received an award from Deputy Speaker Tulia Ackson, while Miquissone won man of the match and was awarded 500,000/- by one of the event sponsors KCB Bank. This is the third time for Simba to win the Cup. The tournament, which was formally known as FAT Cup is now becoming a popular tournament after being on and off in 1990s and early 2000s. Simba lifted it for the first time in 1995 before managing to lift it again in 2017. It was monumental day in Rukwa region as the Sumbawanga town experienced hive of activities. The town was mostly decorated by red and white colours. Just before noon, the venue was filled to the brim as fans started flocking in as early as 6am. As the match kicked off, it turned up to be an end to end affair. Namungo were the first to threaten in the 16th minute, when Bigirimama Blaise found himself in space inside the 18 yards after beating Jonas Mkude and Gerson Fraga he wasted the opportunity with only goalkeeper, Aishi Manula to beat. In the 19th minute, Chama’s set piece found Mkude at the near post but the midfielder directed his header wide with keeper Nurdin Barola seemingly beaten Simba suffered a blow in the 20th minute, when skillful attacking midfielder Francis Kahata picked a knock and was to be replaced by Hassan Dilunga, who injected pace upfront. Miquissone powered home the opener for Simba in the 27th minute. It all started from a brilliant display by Shomari Kapombe, who cleverly beat a defender before whipping a cross inside the box, which was half cleared by a defender and the Mozambican reacted quickly to power home a low shot into a yawning net. It was 2-0 in the 39th minute, when Bocco headed into the far post a high ball from Miquissone. The diminutive Mozambican attacker reacted to a long cross in by Dilunga. Shortly before the goal Miquissone twisted and turned past defenders and created a half chance. After the break, Simba maintained their ascendency to the game and in the 54th minute Fraga missed a chance to extend his team’s lead as his shot sailed over the bar. They were made to pay as Namungo pulled one back in the 56th minute through Edward Manyama, heading home Abeid Athumani’s corner kick. In the 66th minute, keeper Barola was forced to a full stretch, to parry off Bocco’s shot to a corner kick. It was a super save by the keeper as Bocco raced clear to a clever chip in pass by Miquissone.