FOUR people, including two Kenyan women, appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Friday, charged with several counts relating to fraudulent use of communication network and occasioning loss to the government. They are Beth Ngunyi (43) and Florence Dirangu (34), who are all Kenyan women from Nairobi and Qlven Swai (26) and Godluck Macha (28), both Tanzanian businessmen living at Mbezi Beach in the commercial city of Dar es Salaam. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Yusto Ruboroga, the accused persons were not allowed to enter pleas to the charges because the case against them has been filed under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. Other counts include conspiracy to commit an offence, operating electronic communications without a licence, use of unapproved electronic equipment, importation and installation of electronic communication equipment without a licence. The rest are unlawful presence in Tanzania, for the Kenyans and harbouring a person, for Tanzanians. The case was adjourned to August 20, 2020, for mention as investigations, according to the prosecution led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon and State Attorney Batilda Mushi, are incomplete. Magistrate Ruboroga ordered the accused persons to remain in remand as his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail. It is alleged that on diverse dates between July 1 and 26, 2020 at various places within and outside the United Republic of Tanzania, jointly and together, all accused persons conspired to commit an offence of fraudulent use of network facilities. The trial attorneys alleged that on July 13, 2020 at Tarakea area in Rombo District in Kilimanjaro Region, the Kenyans imported into Tanzania some electronic communication equipments, which are two Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) Gateway Model E-Join Technology black in colour having eight channels. According to the prosecution, the accused persons committed the offence without having a licence issued by the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA). Between July 20 and 26, 2020 at Kibona Lodge in Mbezi beach area within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam, all accused persons allegedly installed and unlawfully operated the said equipments without licence of the Authority. The court was told that within the same period and place in the city, all the accused persons unlawfully maintained them connected to electronic communication network service for the purpose of receiving and transmitting electronic communications signals without approval from TCRA. Within the same period at the lodge in Mbezi beach area within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam, with intent to avoid rates payable for receiving or transmitting international incoming traffic, all accused persons allegedly dishonestly transmitted communication by terminating international incoming traffic. The prosecution further told the court that on July 13, 2020 at Kibona Lodge, Mbezi Beach area in Kinondoni District, the two Kenyans who are not citizens of Tanzania, were found unlawfully present in the United Republic of Tanzania. It is alleged that on July 15, 2020 at the lodge, the two Tanzanians unlawfully sheltered Beth Ngunyi and Florence Dirangu in the United Republic of Tanzania knowingly they had committed an offence of unlawful presence in the country. Between July 20 and 26, 2020 at Kibona Lodge in Mbezi beach area within Kinondoni District in the city, by their willful acts, all four accused persons caused the government of Tanzania and TCRA to suffer a pecuniary loss of 16,634,400/-.