IN what appears to be jumping from a frying pan and into the fire, a secondary school girl became a victim of rape after running away from home, to avoid being punished for poor performance. However, the suspected rapist, Rutoyo Richard, who had been convicted of the offence and sentenced to 30 years imprisonment, is now a freeman, having been cleared by the Court of Appeal. Justices Shaban Lila, Winfrida Korosso and Barkeh Sahel acquitted Richard, the appellant, after allowing his appeal. It was alleged by the prosecution in the particulars of offence that on April 19, 2015 at Kamnyonge area within the District and Municipality of Musoma in Mara Region, the appellant did have carnal knowledge of a fifteen (15) year old girl (name withheld). However, having gone through the evidence on record, the justices of the appeals court were in full agreement with the prosecution that the evidence produced fell short of proving the charged offence of rape under section 130 (1) (2) (e) and 131 (1) of the Penal Code. That section, they noted, creates an offence of rape committed against a girl of the age of 18 and less, which is termed as statutory rape. Under that section, therefore, the justices said, the age of the victim is of great essence and for the offence to stand, it must be proved that the victim is eighteen or below. “Times without number, this Court has demonstrated need and casted that duty on prosecution who, in our criminal jurisprudence is, imperatively obliged to prove the charge beyond all reasonable doubt. The prosecution did not completely lead any evidence tending to prove the age of the victim,” they said. The justices observed further that no one, be it the victim, her mother or the medical practitioner led evidence proving the age of the victim. They pointed out that what came out clearly from the record are particulars given by the victim and the PF3 which indicated that she was 15 years old. “On the authorities, that was insufficient to prove the age of the victim. We reiterate that cogent evidence relating to age from the victim, parent, close relative, close friend, a teacher from where she was schooling or any person who knew well the victim was required,” the justices insisted. They concluded that the offence of statutory rape could not stand where age of the victim, which is one of the crucial ingredients of the offence, is not proved. Therefore, they ruled, the appellant's conviction of the offence was not sound in law. “We find the appeal meritorious. We accordingly invoke our powers of revision in terms of section 4(2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act and hereby quash the appellant's conviction and set aside the sentence. The appellant be released from prison forthwith unless held for another lawful cause,” they declared. As it were, the victim of rape was schooling with her young sister at Buhare Secondary School. They were in form I. Midterm test paper results were released and the victim’s score happened to be lower than that of her young sister, as the former scored 45 per cent while the later scored 50 per cent. The victim's mother was unhappy with that. She furiously questioned, abused and threatened to take the victim to her teacher for further inquiry. Afraid of what would befall her in the event she was to be taken to school, the victim packed her belongings on April 19, 2015 in the evening and left. While on the way, she met the appellant and his friend who were on a motorcycle. The two, who were strangers to her, offered her a lift, and as it was already late in the evening, she accepted, and the trio left, going in the direction leading to Buhare, and the journey ended at a certain house in the area. After a short while, the appellant's companion left, leaving the appellant and the victim therein. Elaborating on what happened thereafter, the victim claimed that for three consecutive nights, the appellant had sexual intercourse with her at knife-point. She told the trial court that in all those days until April 21, 2015, the appellant used to lock her inside the house during the day, but during the night he forcefully undressed her, forced her to sleep on the bed, spread her legs apart and penetrated his male organ into her genital parts while holding a knife. The victim complained that she experienced pain, and at one time blood oozed from her genital parts. It was on April 21, 2015 when, after the appellant had closed the door from outside and left, one woman passed near the house and the victim begged her to open the door. Villagers returned her inside and laid an ambush for the appellant, who appeared later without prior knowledge of the setup, where he was apprehended.