YOUNG Africans midfielder Feisal Salum has pledged to double his efforts next season so as to help his side excel and win titles in various competitions to come on their way. He made the remarks recently in Dar es Salaam after being presented with a gift of 1m/- after winning more votes from Yanga fans for the award of the team’s player of the season. The exercise of awarding player of the season for both Yanga and Simba is run by SportPesa Tanzania whereby fans of the two clubs are given a chance to vote for whom they think sparked above others in their respective teams. For Simba, however, the award has been reserved for Zambian playmaker Clatous Chama who won most votes casted by the team’s supporters and will be awarded upon returning back in the city from Sumbawanga where his side face Namungo in Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) finals tomorrow. “I do not have much to say other than just thanking our fans for their votes and SportPesa for this award. This is a challenge for me to work harder next season,” he said. On his side, SportPesa Director of Administration and Compliance Abbas Tarimba said the exercise was open for each player in the two squads to be voted by their fans. “This was a transparent system of voting which requires supporters of the two teams to vote for their best player of the season. Last season, it was Feisal for Yanga and Chama for Simba,” he said. Apart from the cash gifts, the successful players are also awarded a trophy branded by their names. Meanwhile, the leadership of Yanga will today have a meeting with branch leaders of the club from Dar es Salaam and nearby regions aimed at finding ways on how to best commemorate the upcoming Wiki ya Mwananchi. According to the official statement from the club, the meeting together with WhatsAp Admins of the club will be held at its headquarters in the city from 10:00am. Last season, Yanga completed the top flight league campaign on second place, a position they heavily fought for after sailing through a bumpy ride for them.