TWO more people allegedly linked with the theft of over 2.08bn/-, the property of the National Microfinance Bank (NMB), appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Friday charged with leading organized crime, stealing and money laundering. They were Jabiri Ngoli (43), a teacher residing at Masasi in Mtwara Region and Josephat Mpondo (54), a security guard with Security Group of Africa (SGA), staying at Kiwalani in the city. The two were joined in the case facing 24 others. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Yusto Ruboroga, the accused persons were not allowed to enter a plea to the charges because the case has been filed under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate could not also entertain anything, include the question of bail. This is because the court lacked jurisdiction and that the offence of money laundering in not bailable. Under the circumstances, the case was adjourned to September 8, 2020, for mention. Investigations in the matter, according to the prosecution, have not been completed. Other accused persons, who were arraigned in July 2020 in connection with the charges are Menjestus Mselema, Tulipo Mwakuzi, Grace Komba , Bernadetha Mselem, Beda Mmali, Kaisi Nasibu, John Selestine, alias Mkamba, Edes Hyera, Osward Mselema, Olaph Mselema and Janeth Shilla. Others in the list are Englibert Masare, Godwin Erio, Anold Erio, Agnes Mselema, Florah Mwita, Bernard Victor, Sylindion Odilo, Said Mkimo, alias Kinjumbi, Tispo Mwasakieni, alias Ronic, Joseph Nicas, Patson Pangaja, Jacob Mwakyembe and Juma Mbulinda. Prosecuting, State Attorney Neema Mushi told the court that on diverse dates in 2020 in the city of Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, Menjestus, Tulipo, Godwin, Anold, Agnes, Florah and Bernard, intentionally organized a criminal racket of stealing through a fraudulent scheme. The court heard that on June 8, 2020 at Mbezi Beach area in Kinondoni District, all accused persons stole 2,082,000,000/-, the property of the National Microfinance Bank (NMB). On money laundering, the accused were charged with that within the same period, took the money while knowing or ought to have known that the said sum was proceeds of predicate offence of stealing. Recently, the police in Dar es Salaam announced to have arrested 32 suspects, including two staff of Security Group of Africa (SGA) in connection with theft of 2.08bn/- belonging to the NMB Bank. The Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Lazaro Mambosasa, was quoted as saying that the theft occurred on June 8, 2020 in the city. According to him, the incident occurred on the day when the suspects were escorting the money to the NMB bank House from Mbezi Beach branch. He stated that on the date of the incident, five SGA members of staff in a Mitsubishi Canter were signed to deliver the cash to the NMB bank house. “Instead of delivering the money to the intended destination, the suspects diverted the route and headed to the Temeke area where they abandoned the vehicle,” he is quoted as saying. Mr Mambosasa said the suspects made away with one teller box that had 1.5bn/- , leaving three other teller boxes and their weapons. “The police responded immediately after they were informed of the theft, where on our primary investigation, we spotted the vehicle being abandoned at Temeke area with the remaining cash,” the Zonal Commander explained. On further investigation, he said, the police arrested key players alongside some who had already travelled upcountry in a bid to escape the arrest, but their attempts were unsuccessful. Commander Mambosasa further revealed that the suspects then started spending the money with some buying motorcycles and power tillers, adding that the properties were also seized by the force. This is the second theft of huge cash to have faced a financial institution in Dar es Salaam city. The first one occurred in February 2020 involving stealing 2.275bn/- belonging to NBC bank.