PETTY traders in the Zanzibar City and other municipalities have complained over shortage of customers during the week long Eid- al Adha celebrations which started last Friday and ended on Tuesday. Despite relaxed Covid- 19 restrictions and opening of business activities and entertainment, small traders say since the celebrations began, only few customers have turned-up, with almost no tourists from abroad. Ms Fat-hiya Omar, a food vendor in the city is among the many traders who expressed happiness for the full opening of business, “But still we had few customers, probably because people do not have money following the global impact of Covid-19.” Mr Hashim Yassir, a trader who operates children toys at Kariakoo public children entertainment park and the famous Forodhani public park said, “We thank the government for reopening businesses during this Eid, but it is unfortunate that our customers at Forodhani and Stone Town are few, since visitors and tourists from Europe are not back.” In efforts to minimize the spread of coronavirus, schools and entertainment centres, including pubs were closed in March this year, along with changes in operating markets to restrict gatherings. But the government has been easing the restrictions gradually because of no more cases of Covid-19. Following the Ministry of Health’s statement that Covid -19 has been contained, City and Municipal authorities allowed people to open their businesses during the fourday Eid celebrations which ended yesterday. The Eid el Fitr in May was not possible because gatherings were still restricted due to the virus. Speaking at the Eid al Adha special gathering (Eid Baraza) at Bumbwini Secondary School, north of the city, President Ali Mohamed Shein asked members of the public to continue working hard while observing health precautions and prayers. Dr Shein said, “We relied on the power of God through prayers to control Covid-19, and the country continues to remain safe from the virus which still ravages countries across the globe.” Eid al-Adha is an Islamic festival held after the pilgrimage in Mecca-Saudi Arabia, to commemorate the willingness of Ibrahim (also known as Abraham) to follow GOD (Allah’s) command to sacrifice his son. Muslims around the world observe this event.