BY and large, bankruptcy is associated with the fate that a wealthy person suffers, when one’s financial and related fortunes take a plunge. Sympathetic people would share in the sadness stemming from the one-time glorious times being replaced by gloom. The sympathy may be justified, in respect of those who may have been victims of market shocks, but those whose gloom may have been by-products of their own blunders seldom elicit sympathy. We wish to state, though, that, political bankruptcy is also a problem, at which it is worthwhile to casting a critical glance. This is pertinent against the backdrop of Tanzania’s current election season ahead of the polls scheduled for October this year. The political opposition camp has the misfortune of being saddled with elements that evidently personify political bankruptcy. Going by its very definition, the main opposition party, Chadema, is supposedly a political outfit that is anchored on promoting democracy and development. Yet it conducts itself in a manner that is the very opposite of those ideals; something on which we have regularly dwelt. In the relatively distant past, Chadema had been a staunch critic, including through Parliament, via which the voice of wananchi is most appropriately amplified, on issues that are critical to their lives. Some of the many reforms and measures that the fifth phase government led by President John Magufuli, which have impressed most wananchi who compose much of the electorate, have admirably addressed concerns that had been bothering them, were in reaction to justified criticisms. Paradoxically, however, Chadema has either been mocking the successes, or deliberately avoiding to cite them. It is as virtually unbelievable as it is detestable, that, the party that is supposed to play a role modeling role for others in the opposition camp, is, on the contrary, engaged in what may truly pass for a manifestation of political bankruptcy. For in campaigns, the electorate is eager to hear what Chadema, and other parties, have in store for Tanzanians by way of a compass that points to a better Tanzania. Rubbishing CCM, one of whose admirable attributes is self-criticism and reforms as a campaign strategy, is absolutely pointless; a manifestation of political bankruptcy! So is the tendency to whip up emotions of wananchi bent on inciting chaos, but the State is alert to ensure that peace and security are sustained.