SIMBA playmaker Clatous Chama has called on his side to adequately prepare for the next season so as to achieve more to surpass last season's successes. The defending champions are already on the ground preparing for the Community Shield game against Namungo FC scheduled on Sunday at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha. The match will be refreshing the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) finals where the two teams met and the former excelled with a 2-1 victory to accomplish their treble title mission. But speaking recently in the city, the dynamic midfielder said they need to ask for new annointment and grace from God for them to be able to shine in the upcoming season. "We cannot depend on the last season's annointment and grace hence we need to request for them again prior to the approaching new term," he said. Moreover, Chama reiterated that he still has a lot to offer in his football career and urged Simba fans to always give their team deserved support. "I expect a lot from my colleagues especially following the good signings which have been made so far and it is our responsibility to make sure that we make fans happy throughout the next season," said Chama who managed to win two awards during the recent Simba Fan Awards ceremony held in the city. However, due to the good quality of the current Simba squad, Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck admitted that he is now facing headache when it comes to pick the first eleven of the team. His side demolished Burundian team Vital'O FC 6-0 on Saturday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam during the climax of the annual Simba Day celebrations. It was a good performance for the home team with the level of competition in the squad seemingly hot as each player had a wonderful match to fit the big day itself. The champions will begin title defence with a tricky away match against leagues debutants Ihefu FC at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya on September 6th. It will be the first time for the two sides to meet in the league match with Ihefu earning top flight league promotion after kicking out Mbao FC in playoffs last season. The first leg at Ihefu's Highland Estate ground in Mbarali saw them winning 2-0 while the return leg at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza, Mbao won 4-2 hence the visitors progressed courtesy of two away goals.