HEALTH experts in Zanzibar have warned that it is wrong for people to think that the Covid- 19 pandemic, which has not spared any country, has disappeared: it could still resurface and kill many people. “Combined measures and observing health precautions must continue,” say health officers. Assistant Programme Manager for Communicable Diseases (HIV & Tuberculosis programme and Covid-19) Issa Abeid Mussa and the Head of Health Promotion in the Ministry of Health says Covid-19 has been controlled, but there are some mild cases, necessitating continued observance. In adoption and mitigation measures, the experts urge people to continue hand washing, discourage stigma, avoid public gatherings, and practise testing before travelling abroad because in some countries they require health certificates on your Covid-19 status before entry clearance. “Since we are now living with Covid-19 as more countries get back to normal life including re-opening of schools, here in Zanzibar we are tuning ourselves to live with the disease by taking different measures, including increase public awareness and improving testing.” “We are almost done with fixing or installing Covid-19 testing equipment in the laboratory at Mnazi Mmoja Hospital, acquiring testing kits along with training of personnel ready to start the testing in Zanzibar instead of taking samples to Dar es Salaam,” Ms Khamis said. She said that all health workers at the designated facilities have been trained or given knowledge on how to swab for Covid testing. The specimen is transported to the laboratory at Mnazi Mmoja Hospital for testing. Ms Khamis said that travellers requiring coronavirus test certificates will also be able to test at the hospital but sample collection or swapping will be done at the designated facilities and then transferred to Mnazi Mmoja Hospital for testing. The designated facilities are Makunduchi Hospital and Jambiani (PHCU) in Unguja Kusini district; Mwera, Tunguu PHCU, Ndijan Baniani and Unguja Ukuu in Central District; Kivunge Hospital and Matemwe in North A district; Mahonda PHCU and Fujoni PHCU in North B district; and Magirisi PHCU and Kombeni in West A district. Other facilities where samples for Covid-19 can be collected are Kianga, Selemu, and KMKM in West A district; and in Mjini district (Kwamtipura, Magereza, Global Hospital, and AlRahma Hospital), while in Pemba the facilities are Pujini, Vitogonji, and Chake Hospital) in Chakechake district. In Mkoani District (Abdalla Mzee, Bogoa, Kengeja, and Wambaa), Wete district (Wete hospital, Junguni PHCU, Mzambarauni, and Kojani);and Micheweni District (Micheweni cottage, Konde PHCU,and Sizini PHCU) are other designated facilities in Pemba where you can be swapped in noise or mouth to get samples for Covid- 19 testing. While the government takes different steps to cope with the global pandemic, it has also been working with the media organizations and the religious group to increase awareness and fight stigma. The officers from the health ministry have also facilitated media update meeting on coronavirus in the country. An official of the Ministry of Health Issa Abeid Mussa said they would be happy to learn that journalists and the faith based organizations are well informed. “We still have a problem of stigma during outbreaks, people infected and families with patients of Covid-19 are stigmatized and isolated. This taints our campaigns to treat people and promote voluntary testing,” Mussa said. Ali Nassor Sultan, a journalist, also talked on “Effective reporting on pandemic: Guidelines on reporting pandemic (focus on coronavirus). The Covid-19 media update was organized by the Zanzibar Press Club (ZPC) prior to its general meeting supported by the Union of Tanzania Press Clubs (UTPC). Sultan reminded journalists and the media owners that they have a great role to play in educating members of the public about pandemics and disasters. “Avoid sensational publications and fictitious stories. Journalists must commit to delivering verified and unbiased information from different sources. Journalists should also refrain from publishing stories that may cause hatred among people and incite violence,” he said. The Mufti of Zanzibar Sheikh Saleh Omar Kabi officiated the launch of national hand washing week aiming at promoting the culture of keeping body hygiene to reduce risks of contracting communicable diseases. The mufti said at the launch ceremony that it is important for every resident in Zanzibar and elsewhere in Tanzania to take individual efforts to control coronavirus. Zanzibar Press Club secretary Mwinyinvua Abdi Nzukwi urged journalists to observe Covid-19 health precautions as they continue working, visiting different areas and meeting difference sources in the country. Deputy Permanent Secretary (PS) Ministry of Information, Tourism, and Heritage Saleh Mnemo also asked members of the club for continue collaboration and hard work for the club and remain committed in educating the public about pandemic.