ALL eyes tonight will be at Mlimani City where Tanzanian Hassan Mwakinyo faces Tshibangu Kayembe in the World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental Super Welterweight bout today. The Tanzanian star, Mwakinyo has fought 19 bouts, winning 16 fights and losing two others. His last game was against Arnel Tinampay from Philippines where he won by points in a bout staged at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. His Congolese opponent, Kayembe has fought 12 bouts winning nine, drawing in three others and he is yet to lose a fight. He has fought all twelve bouts at his ground in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and won two titles that are; Universal Boxing Organisation (UBO) Africa Super Light Title and International. On Thursday, the WBF Observer, Emmanuel Mlundwa confirmed that Mwakinyo is ready to face his opponent as in the 68.8 kg fight. “According to World Boxing Federation laws and regulations, this Intercontinental fight will be played in either ten or twelve rounds but for both fighters to qualify to this contest they are forced not to exceed 69.85 kilogrammes. If one of the fighters exceeds the recommended weight, I will give the boxer a maximum of two hours to reduce the weight.” “When both boxers exceed the fixed weight the fight will proceed as scheduled as boxers with exceeding weights. But if one boxer has met standards, the other ought to reduce.” Mlundwa confirmed that Mwakinyo weighed 68.8 kilogrammes which was below the maximum target, while his opponent Kayembe was directed to reduce some points after he weighed 70 kilogrammes. Meanwhile, the Secretary General of Tanzania Professional Boxing Regulatory Commission (TPBRC) urged all boxers to adhere to the laws and regulations that guide boxing in and out of the rings as failure to observe them might lead one to be disqualified. Prior to the big fight, the stage will host 11 preliminary bouts where Tony Rashid from Tanzania will fight against Tinashe Mwadziwane from Zimbabwe. There will be female boxers who will face each other in two bouts; Stumai Muki against Leila Yazidu and Haidari Mchanjo who will face Baina Mazola. Other eight bouts that will fight on the same day include; Juma Choki versus Emmanuel Mwakyembe, Issa Nampepeche vs Khalid Manjee, Saidi Zungu vs Ismail Galiatano and Abdul Juma vs Juma Habib. More fights will involve Mussa Chitepete against Bakari Mohamed, Selemani Kidunda against Shabani Kaoneka and Hussein Gobos will test Abdallah Kingulwira.