THE World Tourism and Travel Council (WTTC) has endorsed Tanzania as the safest travel destination globally. The nod by the forum for the travel and tourism industry comes as more than five international flights resumed their flights to the country, amid the Cocid-19 pandemic which continues to ravage different parts of the world. Speaking shortly after handing over awards to best performing tour operating companies and lodges, Natural Resources and Tourism Minister Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla noted that the endorsement was a compelling indication by the government on how keen and determined it was in maintaining sound preventive measures to contain the deadly virus. Dr Kigwangalla was optimistic that the certification by the WTTC would restore Tanzania’s confidence on the tourism front and lure more visitors to the country. “It is so rewarding to be endorsed by the council, which has indeed expressed satisfaction on our preventive measures (against Covid-19) which resulted to not locking down our country,” explained the minister during the second edition of the Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) Tourism Awards held at the authority’s headquarters yesterday. The minister attributed the feat of succeeding in containing the killer virus to stakeholders’ joint efforts with the government which also included the rolling out Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) which sought to cushion the 2bn/-a year sector against the effects of the novel Coronavirus. “The SOPs, coupled with the review on the recent travel advisory gave us the upper hand, hence the nod by WTTC,” he said. The government had on Wednesday, reviewed its advisory on international travel, in a deliberate move to accommodate additional measures aimed at curbing the spread of the novel coronavirus from other countries. Early this week, major airlines resumed flights to and from Tanzania, bringing in a substantial number of tourists. The Royal Dutch Airlines(KLM) touched down at the Kilimanjaro International Airport(KIA) on Wednesday to the traditional water cannon salute, ushering the rebirth of the tourism season. The endorsement by the WTTC will see Tanzania presented by a special symbol and award, which will later be handed over to President John Pombe Magufuli. Dr Kigwangalla appealed to the stakeholders to revel in the country’s feat but not to be complacent of the achievement, lest the sector backpedals. A total of 33 companies excelled in different categories with Leopard Tours emerging this year’s overall winner in the business performance category, wrestling the title from Zara Tours. Earlier on, the TANAPA Conservation Commissioner, Dr Allan Kijazi said the awards gala symbolised the strong cooperation the authority had with its stakeholders. Dr Kijazi, who is also the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Natural Resources and Tourism Ministry, further rooted for the rescheduling of the subsequent awards, to be marked on World Tourism Day.