FOUR ladies volleyball teams have stepped up to spice up Six Northern Volleyball tournament showdown and brighten Nane Nane Day at CCP College in Moshi, Kilimanjaro today. The day-long event is organised by Mwanza-based Home Life Sports (HOLIS) in collaboration with Kilimanjaro Regional Volleyball Association (KRVA) and Arusha Regional Volleyball Association (ARVA). HOLIS chairman, Majaliwa Mayunga, told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ that preparation for the event has been finalised and they are happy that ladies teams have jumped into the bandwagon. He said the two teams are from Kilimanjaro and other two are from Arusha. They will join six men’s teams that have already been registered for the showdown. The ladies confirmed teams from Arusha are IAA and Pentagon Girls, while those from Kilimanjaro are ATC and Kilimanjaro Queens. They join six men’s teams, three from Kilimanjaro and three others from Arusha to make the draw to ten teams. Kilimanjaro-based teams are MoCu, Mwekau and New Generation, while from Arusha; there are Pentagon, ATC and Golden Wings. The men’s teams, according to Mayunga, are pooled into two groups. Group A consists MoCu, Golden Wings and ATC whereas Group B formed by Pentagon, Mwecau and News Generation. He also said that fans outside Moshi can follow all the action live through homelife sportz instagram. Mayunga added that to make event more interesting VAKI and Pepsi have joined other sponsors to support the event. The sponsors are Moshi FM, HOLIS, Swahana Basic Services (SBS) and Yaresh Media. “We are grateful to Arusha and Kilimanjaro teams, they have responded well at first HOLIS organising event outside Mwanza city and sponsors who helped to make it a good event,” he said. Mayunga said he was delighted to see four ladies teams submitting participation as opposed to the last event in Mwanza where only one team took part. The tournament among others aims at breaking the gap between the two regions by bringing players together as they gear up to turn the game match the middle-income earners status. According to the organisers, the tournament also aims at harmonizing friendship and gives players a chance to compete and showcase their talents.