ALL eyes will be at Mirongo courts in Mwanza today, the venue of the much awaited Mwareva Volleyball Bonanza. The day-long bonanza is organised by Mwanza Region Volleyball Association (MWAREVA) and Mirongo courts has been always the major venue of volleyball in the Lake Zone-based city. According to the organisers, among others the bonanza will unveil the newly elected MWAREVA office bearers who have taken the helm in the recently held general election. The new leaders who will serve the office for four years include the Chairman David Neeke who has taken his first leadership role as a personal efforts to promote and develop the sport in the region. A national beach volleyball member, Neeke who plays professional volleyball at Equity Bank team of Kenya, is in the country after the Kenyan League was suspended since March due to the coronavirus scare. Neeke told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Mwanza yesterday that preparation for the bonanza has been completed. “All preparations have been going on well, we will host our first bonanza as we planned,” he said. Neeke added that nine teams have already confirmed to participate in a bonanza that also aims to harmonize friendship among players, especially at this time when the sport bounced back after a four- month hiatus due to coronavirus. Like other countries, all sports including volleyball faced a hard time as there was no sport activity was allowed between mid-March to early June. Neeke added the teams have been pooled into two groups A and B and the two teams that finished top will sail through to the semi-final. Group A consists of Magu, MTC, Misungwi and Bugando while group B has five teams- SAUT (St Augustine University Tanzania), BOT (Bank of Tanzania), Igombe, Butimba and Ukerewe. The new chairman has been working hard to support the growth of sport in recent years. Among them includes donating sports shoes to young players in Mwanza so that they can take on the game smoothly. Other officer bearers are the vice chairman Damian Gogomoka, the secretary general is Azizi Mabele while his assistant is DonBosco Mwanjale, while Joel Shukuru claimed the treasury post.