THE Content Committee of Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has banned Jahazi programme aired by Clouds Entertainment FM Radio for violating broadcasting regulations while Wasafi TV online and Arusha based Triple A 'FM radio were fined five million shillings each. The Vice Chairman of the TCRA’s Committee of Content, Mr Joseph Mapunda, announced the decisions in Dar es Salaam, saying the stations were fined for violating the Electronic Communications and Postal Code of 2018. Speaking on the axing of Jahazi programme, Mr Mapunda said that on June 26, this year, at 4pm Radio Clouds, through its programme, used obscene language which could encourage youths to engage in self-stimulating sexual acts. He asked the management not to broadcast any new similar programme with similar content in the respective time. “Between June and August, this year, Clouds Radio FM personnel were summoned twice by the committee for repeatedly committing similar offences,” he said. Speaking on the 5 million/- fine imposed on Triple A Radio Station, the Vice Chairman said the fine was slapped on the FM radio station since its programme’s content encouraged superstitious practices. The Committee has also imposed a 5million/- fine on the Tabora based CG FM Radio Station for violating and ignoring the government's order of not extensively reading newspaper-generated content in morning programmes. Mr Mapunda said through the Morning Power programme, the broadcaster read newspaper stories in detail when the government order required them to read only headlines. Wasafi Online TV was also fined 5 million/-for violating broadcasting regulations by supporting sexual acts through its Women Matter programme. TCRA's Committee has advised the local media to follow rules, regulations and ethics of journalism. Meanwhile, four local radio stations have been given warning, including being placed under close monitoring for violating broadcasting regulations. The stations were accused of airing a foreign generated interview between BBC Swahili Service and Vice Chairman of the Chadema Party, Mr Tundu Lissu. According to Mr Mapunda, in broadcasting the BBC programme through local channels, Lissu accused the government of denying him the opportunity to pay his last respects to the late third term President, the late Benjamin Mkapa. He urged all broadcasting stations in the country to critically examine and evaluate contracts offered by foreign broadcasting stations. The Vice Chairman mentioned the stations that were involved in the matter as Radio Free Africa, Radio One, Radio Abood of Morogoro, as well as Radio CG FM based in Tabora. The Vice-Chairman said on July 29 this year at different times, the stations aired the programme without adhering to the broadcasting regulations by giving one-sided information and failing to seek information from the other side.