THE Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday handed over 200m/-, collected from CRDB Charity Marathon to Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) to support heart operations to 100 children. Gracing the event in Dar es Salaam, the VP praised the Bank’s innovation saying the funds would really serve the needy given the fact that it costs around 2.8m/- per a single heart operation. “This heart institute has become the refuge for many and served their lives because earlier, we had a challenge of high cost of heart treatments abroad. In efforts to save the costs and reduce burden of treatment expenses to Tanzanians of low class (poor), the government continues to make remarkable improvements in this important Institute, including the increase in medical devices, drugs, medical experts and financial support,” she said, adding: "It should be remembered that in the past, the government used to send the patients in India wherein the heart surgery costs were high, over eight million per head, while it currently costs below 3m/- after the improvements at JKCI." The VP explained further that it was well known that the current cost is still unaffordable to majority (poor) Tanzanians, hence, the CRDB idea played a big role given the fact that the number of heart patients keeps on increasing. Receiving the aid, JKCI Executive Director, Dr Mohamed Janabi commented that Tanzania ranks number two in Sub-Saharan countries, behind South Africa in provision of effective heart surgeries. Staged in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the event saw Boniface Ngwata clinching the Men’s 42km cycling race while Jamila Abdul won the Women’s 42km cycling race. Experienced marathoner Joseph Panga overcame tough rivals to win  Men’s 21km Half Marathon as Faulina Mathayo won the similar category in Women event. There were also Men and Women’s 10km races. The winners were Mathayo Yamhenda for men while the ladies event saw Angelina Mboya clinching the top prize. “I’ve run a couple of marathons or so half’s and usually found them to be relatively solitary experiences, but I loved being able to give and receive a little smile and wave to other people running in their Kasi Isambazayo Tabasamu shirts,” said Boniface Ngwata. “CRDB Bank Marathon is an inspiring event to be involved in, I dedicate this win to all the children in need of heart surgeries, may God protect and heal them,” said Faulina Mathayo Women’s Half Marathon champion.