YOUNG Africans have officially lost their Ghanaian striker Bernard Morisson to their traditional rivals Simba a few hours after announcing to have parted ways with their key defenders; Kelvin Yondani and Juma Abdul. Morrison going to Simba is likely to affect Jangwani Street based club as he scored the club’s vital goals during his one-year tenure. Morrison was seen yesterday in Simba kit when signing the contract with Msimbazi street side. Signing Morisson also officially opened the transfer for the Premier League champions. Morrison’s deal is worth 150m/- and he will serve his new team for two years. Earlier yesterday Yanga announced to have parted ways with two veteran defenders Kelvin Yondani and Juma Abdul after failing to reach agreement to the new contract details. The two sides were reportedly at the crossroads as the club wanted to continue enjoying their services for the next season without giving them signing fees a condition which the duo rejected. However, nodding to this development was the club’s Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli who said the two players are free to join any team of their choice on free transfer deals. “It is true that we have failed to reach mutual agreement with them (Yondani and Abdul) after a prolonged discussion with them. They are now free players eligible to join any club. “Let me seize this opportunity to inform Yanga members and fans that they are no longer our players but we will always cherish their contributions at the club,” said Bumbuli. He added: “Yondani was initially assistant captain but later became the team’s captain and for his colleague Abdul, until last season, he was the assistant skipper but we are now going separate ways. “On the climax of Mwananchi Day at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, we will invite them so that they can have formal farewell from the club,” he said. However, with the departure of Yondani and Abdul, it means that Yanga have offloaded a total of 16 players from their last season’s squad as they initially announced the release of 14 players. They are lately in a squad rebuilding exercise ahead of the next season but they still receive criticisms from people that they have let go a big number of players at once. So far, Yanga have signed five new players who are Bakari Mwamnyeto (Coastal Union), Yassin Mustapha (Polisi Tanzania), Zawadi Mauya (Kagera Sugar), Waziri Junior (Mbao FC) and Abdallah Shaibu Ninja. Until now, the Jangwani Street giants are yet to sign new foreign based players in their squad despite ongoing rumours that they are in the final stages to bring back striker Herritier Makambo from Horoya FC. According to the recent released information from the club, they expect to begin pre-season tomorrow and that they will name Head Coach plus the entire technical bench this week. Meanwhile, Meddy Mulisa reports from Bukoba that the former Kahororo FC and Mbao FC striker Jordan John has been signed by promoted Dodoma Jiji FC for the 2020/21 season, it has been disclosed. Kahororo FC Manager, Audax Mutasingwa told this paper that Jordan who also plays as a midfielder has already put ink on paper. “We are delighted that the youthful player will be featuring in the premier league next season. We wish him all the best,” he said. Mbao FC has been relegated to first division.