IT’S not uncommon to face the clients’ pressure in our professional and consultancy life. Any consultancy is subjected to a thrust which is being exerted by the client. A person who pays you for consultancy services is normally in position to influence your professional decision. S/he can tell you what to do in order to suit his/her desire. This can be unwarranted or otherwise depending on the profession. Some professions require that practitioners to be advocates for the client’s position while others deter it. Attorneys and real estate brokerage agencies are normally required to be advocates. Advocacy means representing a cause or interest of another, even if that cause or interest does not necessarily coincide with one’s own beliefs, opinions, conclusions or recommendations. Client pressure can be explained as influence exerted by clients to make valuers to perform their professional duties in unethical ways. For example, to overstate the value for the piece of land that is going to be acquired by the state for public interest. However, the term is not only ascribing the act of a client to subject the valuer to professional misconduct, but also referred to a thrust exerted to a valuer which make him/her to execute the professional duties in stressful environment. For instance, a client may require the appraisal report within a day for his/her bungalow property. In this case, the valuer may be induced the client pressure if he/she will not be in position calmly to tell the truth about the procedure to carry out the appraisal assignment. The valuer should clearly explain the steps (such as property inspection/referencing, conducting market research, approval etc) which the valuer has to follow in order that the appraisal report which meets the minimum requirements be produce in the end. Failing to explain to the client about these, obviously the valuer will be subjected to the client pressure. The client will ask you for the appraisal report the following day which to be honest you don’t have, since appraisal work is not like filling in the sales receipt. Some activities, as I explain above, are involved, hence more time be needed. Also since you accepted to accomplish the task within unreasonable short time, this will lead the client not to accept to pay you handsomely. Remember in first place you showed the appraisal work as simple as a task to accomplish within 1 day. Now if in fee negotiation you express your offer, don’t be surprised to hear the counter offer from the client which is 25% of your offer. This is the effect of showing the simplicity of the work to the client, apart from being stressed by the demand of appraisal work by the client, which you didn’t finish; it does not also give the valuer the upper hand during professional fee negotiation. Valuers, like accountants have additional obligations to the intended consumers of their work, they are required to be disinterested to the third parties and treat clients and intended users with fairness and ethical manor. An accountant often does work in which the client and intended user are on completely different sides of the issue, for instance in auditing and examination. A couple of years ago, some of top auditing firms were scrutinized because they prepared audits that were considered by many to be misleading. Again, in other instance the financial managers and accountants prepared the financial statements which aimed to suit a certain (unethical) goal, known as aggressive accounting. The aggressive accounting which is illegal, involves the practice of incorrectly recognizing revenue in order to please investors, seeks to falsely inflate stock prices by improperly reporting income, failing to capitalize expenses, concealing losses in subsidiaries, or otherwise misrepresenting the company’s financial condition. The effect of it is that, the investors dish out money into companies that have huge losses that went undisclosed. When the valuer or accountant takes an assignment, the customer is not always right. Do not strive to quench his/her thirsty. If a client asks you to prepare a valuation report with specific conclusion, you have to decline that assignment. For instance, the client who instructs you to carry out a valuation task for loan security purposes, while (s/he) exerting a thrust on you that the property or asset which will be used as the collateral for loan must have a certain (higher) value. In this incidence, the valuer must decline such valuation task. Valuation profession suffers from more or less client pressures as accounting industry. Clients ask valuers to cover the negatives and only to disclose positives in their reports, but professional ethics require valuers to decline when asked to mislead the readers of the report to a conclusion other than the reality. For many valuers, the first days spent on the job set the tone for the reminder of their careers. If you get a reputation for doing unethical things, clients who are looking for an unethical appraiser will call you, while clients who want truthful and unbiased appraisals will stay away because they cannot afford to use an appraiser with bad reputation. Mark R. Rattermann the author of The Student Handbook to The Appraisal of Real Estate stressed that, to promote the ethical behaviour in the profession, valuers should be compensated in a manner that avoids any incentive or the appearance of an incentive for deceptive practices. Most appraisers are paid by the hour or on a flat – free basis, which provides little incentive to mislead a client or intended user. The professional valuer, should not structure assignments so that your payment is subject to a lender making a loan, a deal closing, commercial closure, financial closure or any subsequent event. For example, some appraisers accept fee arrangements in which they are paid if a mortgage/financial deal closes. In this case, the loan may be declined if the appraisal process unearths negative information, so the appraiser would not be paid if that information were reported. This gives the appraiser an incentive to not report the negative data, which is clearly unethical. Valuers are not advised to accept appraisal assignments in which they have a bias toward the property or parties involved or a monetary incentive to provide a predetermined or biased opinion of value. For example, accepting appraisal assignments from a spouse who is a loan originator paid on commission is unethical. Because the family income would be increased by the approval of loans and the loans would be approved partially on the basis of the outcome of the appraisal, that conflict of interest would make any such arrangement unacceptable. In consultancy life, one needs to consider the ability to manage the stress of our clients. The client pressure is an evil. One cannot go without it. So long as we offer the consultancy services, that phenomenon is inevitable. This pressure does not bother to look upon our technical capacity or how seasoned we are, it faces everyone in the day to day activities. The good thing that we need to know and accept is the existence of thrust posed to us from the people who pay us for the service we rendered to them. The client pressure should not make us to quite the consultancy job, but the understanding that there is a pressure should make us to think on how to amicably solve this. Because the truth is that, this psychological bias has a very huge impact on the technical decision that a consultant might make. We always need to think on a way that we balance the interest of parties that will be the consumers of our report while not compromising the professional ethics. Robert Mwakisisya is a quantum consultant in Finance, Real Estate, PPP, Project Management