THE controversy surrounding the validity of Bernard Morrison’s contract at Young Africans will be determined by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) today. Morrison, who has since penned a two-year deal with champions Simba SC, is said to have the same contract duration at Yanga set to expire in 2022. However, immediately after pictures of the Ghanaian player in Simba kit signing a new contract with the Reds emerged on Saturday afternoon, Yanga quickly responded, saying they will take stern measures for everyone involved in the malpractice as he is still their legal player. “The leadership of Yanga is keenly following what is unfolding on the social media platforms and if verified that it is true, strict measures will be taken to the concerned parties,” reads part of the official statement issued by the club's Communication Department. In his remarks, Yanga’s Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli admitted that TFF has summoned them for hearing the case concerning Morrison saga. He however played down claims that the club deliberately forged Morrison's signature, so as to keep him at the club until 2022. “How a big club like Yanga which has been there for many years can decide to forge a signature of a player, who has not even helped the team to win a trophy? Let all Yanga fans be calm as the truth will soon be out,” stressed Bumbuli. On his part, relaxed Morrison said moving from Yanga to Simba is not a big deal though supporters and management of Yanga are disappointed, saying it is part of football. “They should not see me as a bad person moving from Yanga to Simba. They just need to understand that it is part of football,” he said softly. Morrison added: “I came here to work wholeheartedly and I am aware about the big challenge coming ahead, while playing for Simba in the top flight league and CAF Champions League hence it is better to be prepared. “I do not have any contract with them (Yanga) so I am free to join any club of my choice,” said Morrison confidently. He then urged Simba fans to welcome him home, saying he is at home now and that he will work hard to win their hearts. The relationship between Yanga and Morrison worsened when he angrily protested after being substituted during the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) semifinals match against Simba as he marched straight to the dressing room ignoring his team’s technical bench. Since then, he missed all the remaining league matches for Yanga last season. Meanwhile, midfielder Hassan Dilunga has promised the newly signed midfielder Bernard Morrison of full support from the club's teammates. “Everybody knows his performance and as players, we will give him full support since we are all working together to build one house and help the club reach its target,” Dilunga said. But, there are also rumours that former Yanga skipper Papy Tshishimbi could be paraded today by Simba on free transfer. Tshishimbi was let go by his past club as the two sides failed to reach mutual agreement on new contract extension deal with the player reported to have requested much than what the club was capable to afford. He was once quoted saying he really would like to play alongside Simba's veteran midfielder Jonas Mkude as such, if the deal is materialised, then his dream will be fulfilled. Tshishimbi was a victim of 16 players, who have been offloaded from the last season's squad of Yanga and he missed a couple of league matches towards the end of the last campaign due to injury. 