TANZANIA’s manufacturing sector has continued to register impressive growth with a total of 8, 477 new industries built during the past five years. The new industries have produced 482,601 new employments for the locals, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa revealed yesterday. The Premier issued the compelling stats that cement the country’s industrialisation drive while laying a foundation stone for the construction of a new industry in Ruangwa District, Lindi region. He said the industrial sector has kept growing at an impressive rate, noting that as of last year, the sector’s contribution to GDP grew at 8.5 per cent from the 8.05 per cent recorded in 2018, which represented an increase of 0.45 per cent. “That contribution is parallel with increased production of industrial goods. For instance, in the year 2019, industrial goods accounted for 10.2tri/- compared to 9.6tri/- in 2018, an equivalent to 5.8 per cent growth,” the prime minister said. “The rising investments in the industrial sector we’re witnessing now in the country has boosted the production of various industrial products such as iron goods, cement, tiles, clothes and costumes, leather and leather products,” the PM stated. He listed other goods whose production has increased in recent years as processed meats, foods, vegetables, fruits, milk and edible oil, sugar, packaging materials, fertilisers, medicines, soaps, cigarettes, and processed cashew nuts. The Premier implored investors to grasp available investment opportunities, by exploring new avenues and expand their enterprises. Mr Majaliwa said the construction of the Saw Mill and Furniture Processing Industry, the first in Ruangwa and planned construction of cashew nut processing industry will spur production of forest and agricultural goods as well as increase value addition in the production chain. “We should also see how we can build industries for processing of sesame, peas, and other crops that are largely grown in our areas for an assured market and for the availability of jobs,” he urged. He said the ongoing investments in the manufacturing sector are in line with the fifth-phase government’s motive to promote the sector for the envisaged economic growth, jobs creation and poverty alleviation. The Deputy Agricultural Minister, Mr Omar Mgumba said the construction of the furniture industry reflected on President John Magufuli’s push for an industrial economy. The Saw Mill and Furniture Processing Industry Executive Director Mr Magira Masegesa said a total of 5bn/- has been invested in the first phase of its construction, adding that upon completion the industry will have the capacity to process 10,000 cubic meters of logs in a year.   Ends/Anderson  