TANZANIA Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) will pick new office bearers on September 20th in General election, the union’s election committee announced yesterday. The TLGU term at office ended April 20 this year, but plan for the next election couldn’t work as planned due to the outbreak of coronavirus globally. All sports activities, including golf, were suspended from mid-April this year as part of preventive measures against the spread of coronavirus. TLGU has now revived the election race after the government allowed sports to resume since early June. Election Committee chairperson Madina Iddi confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ from Arusha this week that preparation for the polls is going on well. Iddi said: “On behalf of the committee, I would like to inform all members that preparation for the general election has already started and is going on  well as necessary arrangements are in place to ensure we have free and fair election on September 20, 2020.” According to Iddi, the posts to be contested include union’s presidency, vice presidency, honorary secretary, treasurer, competition secretary and handicap secretary. However, she said that all application/nomination forms shall be submitted to the election committee by September 13th which is the deadline. The chairperson called upon all lady golfers to participate fully in the coming election by vying for different positions and participate in voting process too. Iddi said that it’s important to conduct the election and select leaders who will carry out a big task of promoting and developing golf in the country. According to TLGU constitution’s amendment of 2019, candidates shall be Tanzanian members of TLGU and shall be elected only at the Annual General Meeting or Special General Meeting. The nominations of officers shall be lodged with the election committee no later than 3 weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting. No nomination shall be accepted from the floor. It lso stated that if any candidate, after being elected declines to serve, the members shall vote for a second time from the remaining viable candidates for the position. All votes cast shall only include the members present while each candidate will be allowed to nominate a representative during the counting of votes, describes the constitution. Former national team member Sophia Viggo is the outgoing president of TLGU whose tenure ends this time after serving for a two-year term since 2018.