SINCE the resumption of the UEFA Champions League two weeks ago, after a long lay-off due to coronavirus threat, the world, including Tanzania, has witnessed the defeat of some of the best soccer teams in the world some of them former UEFA Champions. Some of the clubs whose fans started, from yesterday, to watch the tournament from their small silver screens after elimination of their favourite clubs including Barcelona, Atalanta, Manchester City, Chelsea to name just a few. The aforementioned clubs spent billions of dollars in buying players from all over the world who have not only won local and international soccer tournaments for their respective clubs, but have also entertained soccer fans in the world for over a decade now. Players from all the teams mentioned above were not prepared from the streets. They are products of the best soccer academies in the world. Simply put, the players in question started instruction on how to play the beautiful game when they were five and that eventually led to their presence in the world soccer stage. However, after playing soccer for between five and ten years from their days in their soccer academies and their present clubs; last week they were found wanting, hence their respective clubs defeat against the four clubs currently in the semi final, two from the Federal Republic of Germany (Bayern Munich and Leipzig) and two from France (Olympic Lyon and Paris St. Germain), all the four names providing a lot of challenges, when it comes to pronunciation for many people in the world including journalists. There are massive lessons to be learnt by our local clubs, especially those in the Premier League, from the on-going UEFA Champions League which reached the semifinal stage on Tuesday and Wednesday this week. The first lesson is in the realm of soccer player preparation and registration. As already noted above, all players who participated in the UEFA Champions League this season were scientifically prepared, in terms of training. This explains the kind of pace, skill, technique and tactics we all witnessed. And the first lesson from the tournament is that unlike in the past, this time winners got the better of their opponents through pace. In terms of skills they were not different from clubs like Barcelona and Manchester City who are arguably masters of the modern passing game. Unfortunately both could not meet the fast, cracking pace of Bayern Munich and Olympic Lyon. For Barcelona and Manchester City, you can be 100 per cent sure that they have not only learnt massive lessons from this tournament, but they are also going to ensure that in the forthcoming UEFA Champions League, they are not going to lose against Bayern Munich and Olympic Lyon again. They are going to avoid defeats against the two German and French clubs not through wishful thinking, but through both registration and training. They are going to make sure that next time round, they are not going to lose matches against teams whose paces is faster than theirs. But the question we need to ask ourselves is what are our local clubs, and in particular, those in the Premier League, learnt from the on-going UEFA Champions League? Going by what we have all witnessed in the on-going UEFA Champions League, do managements of our local league think that they have players who could play for those European soccer clubs? If they think they don’t have, the question is why? To date, Tanzania has one player in the English Premier League which produced Manchester City in the form of Mbwana Samatta. That is how close our country is to the UEFA Champions League! Yes, we have a player who plays for an English Premier League that miraculously escaped relegation in the just ended English premier league. Had Samatta been playing for an English Premier League team which reached the quarter final of the UEFA Champions League, we would have said we are nearly there. Last season we almost got there when Samatta represented his Belgian club, Genk in the tournament. It was his presence in the preliminary rounds of the UEFA Champions league that would eventually lead to his registration in Aston Villa. I’m raising this issue of whether or not we are close to the UEFA Champions League soccer level because unless we start comparing ourselves to that level, whatever we are presently doing in the name of soccer development is nothing but zero. Indeed, in order to compete against the best in the world, we need to compare ourselves with the best, not in Africa, but rather in the world and UEFA Champions League is the level. But as I have repeatedly said in the past, we cannot get where UEFA Champions League is, if we continue to prepare our players in the way we prepare them today, mostly through the streets rather than soccer academies. I don’t have more to say.