MWANZA Transit Camp (MTC) displayed stellar performance to claim the special volleyball bonanza title in a shootout staged in Mwanza over the weekend. They won the competition’s top throne without conceding a match. Organised by Mwanza Regional Volleyball Association (MWAREVA) the day-long bonanza held at Mirongo grounds brought together nine teams all based in the region. MTC were unstoppable right from the start and continue to overpower their opponents all their way to their final hurdle, St Augustine University Tanzania (SAUT), who suffered a 3-1 loss. The special event, among others, aims at unveiling the newly elected MWAREVA office bearers under the chairmanship of the national beach volleyball star, Navid Neeke. The winners had to come back from a set down to take three straight wins and seal the victory in first event staged there after the end of coronavirus scare during which all sports activities were suspended countrywide. SAUT, who had wonderful group B record, also sailed through to the final without losing a match. They started their campaign with full energy to lead by 11-25, but they could not hold it for a long as they allowed their opponents to come back and take the second, the third and the fourth sets with 25-20, 25-18 and 25-19 respectively. MTC who won all their group matches, before concluding the race to the final from group A, defeated Magu, Bugando and Misungwi. They sailed through to semifinal with the second-placed Magu. Other group B teams were Bank of Tanzania (BOT), Igombe, Butimba and Ukerewe. SAUT and BOT joined Magu and MTC at the semi-finals. At semifinal stage,  MTC beat BOT by three straight sets in 25-23, 25-16 and 25-18. SAUT sailed to the final after beating Magu 25-20, 25-16 and 25-14. Neeke speaking to the ‘Daily News’ from Mwanza, congratulated MTC for winning the top title. He stressed: “It was a success event, I want to give my complement to all participating teams, they have shown a spirited fight, we had no any award for them, without them this event couldn’t take place,” he said. Neeke who serves Equity Bank of Kenya as professional volleyball player, is in Mwanza after the Kenyan League was halted by coronavirus scare since March this year. Other leaders who  were unveiled during the event were the Vice Chairman Damian Gogomoka, Azizi Mabele (secretary), DonBosco Mwanjale (assistant secretary), and Joel Shukuru (treasurer) who will work with committee members elected from different association’s commissions.