THE Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) said it has largely implemented the country’s blueprint, by scrapping several levies investors were being charged. Clarifying in a meeting in Morogoro region over the weekend, OSHA Acting Chief Executive Officer, Khadija Mwenda said the authority has removed levies that were a hindrance to investors and traders. “The scrapping of tolls… the authority has improved investment environment and doing business in the country,” stated Ms Mwenda, while speaking at a strategic meeting between OSHA and the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA). Ms Mwenda further said the meeting was part of OSHA’s continued efforts to strengthen cooperation with other institution. She said the meeting was aimed at discussing challenges and come up with solutions for better future, adding: “ It was also meant to introduce Vision Zero campaign in Morogoro as a campaign that targets to reduce accidents and diseases at workplaces.” On his part, OSHA Board of Trustees Chairperson, Dr Adelhem Meru, asked employers to understand the concept of occupational safety and health at their workplaces. Dr Meru said that employers would protect their workers upon understanding the concept itself, adding: “If employers ignore the issue of safety and health they would not realise their goals.” He said the issue of safety and health at workplaces was fundamental for the effective production, and contributes to reaching performance targets. However, Dr Meru told members of the TCCIA that they have a major role to play in making the country climb higher levels of the Middle Income Status. Commenting, Chairman of the TCCIA in Morogoro, Mr Mwadhini Myanza, thanked the OSHA for implementing reform proposals contained in the blueprint, saying it was something that has helped their members. “OSHA is an institution which you can’t put it aside when it comes to industrial revolution, because in each stage you need it to provide education on safety and health,” he added. Ms Paulina Laizeri, one of members of the TCCIA in Morogoro, admitted that the OSHA has really helped them by ensuring better working environment for workers.