FOR three consecutive years Simiyu Region hosting Nane Nane Agriculture Trade Fair, have seen several farmers and herders acquiring new skills worth implementing in their farm activities. That was said here recently by Simiyu Regional Commissioner, Anthony Mtaka, while visiting NMB bank pavilion at the show, adding that to them it is not only celebrations, but a forum to build their capacity to further improve in farming, herding and fishing activities. He said the plan to annually organize the show in the region since 2018, especially by the bank being the major sponsor has been majorly supporting the government’s efforts in promoting agriculture development in the country. “NMB bank is a major stakeholder and has been a major contributor, which to us Nane Nane is more than a show but a forum to network and share experiences with other stakeholders from different corners for our farmers’ benefits,” he added. He said when they were informed as a region to organize the annual show; they show it as an edge where the local farmers would acquire new skills and further improve in their business activities. Mr Mtaka noted that building the farmers’ capacities and networking was an opportunity; he also learnt when he travelled to France, Rwanda and South Africa to borrow a leaf for the benefit of the locals. “NMB has brought to us development and supported us a lot in funding the show here in Simiyu since 2018. Currently many farmers, fishermen and herders as well as the general public are mobilized naturally because they know they would gain out of it,” he added. Mr Mtaka noted that when he availed the plan to organize the show in the area, it was only NMB bank that courageously showed ready support and later on motivated other financial institutions to assist. “This included running a special education to different groups at the show to help them in financial matters, and really many have benefited,” he said. Expounding, NMB Western Zone Manager, Mr Sospeter Magesse said the education to the farmers was meant to improve their farming activities countrywide.