OVER the weekend, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in Katavi Region managed to save 23m/- that could have been embezzled by some dishonest civil servants in stage-managed meetings, where the money would have ended up in their pockets as sitting allowances. According to our Sunday News coverage, the saved money is part of 41.12m/- that was embezzled by one of the suppliers in the regions by the same dishonest civil servants, who are being paid by the taxpayers’ money to run such unfounded meetings. You may ask yourself, are these really Tanzanians and do they have mercy on taxpayers’ money collected as taxes to address community projects? If this culture still persists in the civil service and society, then Tanzanians have all the reasons to go to a drawing table and chart still penalties for them. On the breathe, Tanzanians hail the Katavi Regional Commissioner Mr Juma Homera, who directed that all the civil servants, who swindled the money in question be taken to task with immediate effect, including instituting disciplinary measures and court action. Though man inherently dislikes to work and must be forced to work, work in this scenario should not be interpreted as robbing the citizens of their hard-earned money, just because a person has been entrusted in an office as a leader to oversee their funds and development. It is good that the RC went an extra mileage to order the anti-corruption bureau to start investigating all government institutions, Saving and Credit Cooperative Societies (Saccos) Agriculture Marketing Cooperative Society (AMCOS) and all development projects implemented through fishy accounts. It beats logics to find out that the government and citizens are busy building a transparent generation of hardworking and honest civilians, while some dishonest and egocentric people are backpeddling the country to dark days, where every Tom, Dick, and Harry, in a Shamba la bibi style are still fleecing and looting public funds. Think of a case, just the tip of the iceberg that the Katavi Regional PCCB Commander, Mr Christopher Nakua, managed to recover and return 15,193,500/- to Tanganyika District Executive Director, Mr John Lumuli, being property of Kamjela Primary School that was swindled by a supplier who was contracted to supply building materials to the school. This is crystal clear that some looters are still in the community, though seen as honest civil servants, but prowling for any project(s) funds to eat, a culture that should not be allowed to thrive in Tanzania. It is possible to fight corruption and the dream should start from you and I.