IN effort to empower the host community, Geita Gold Mining (GGML) Limited and the National Economic and Empowerment Council of Tanzania signs an agreement for the provision of consultancy and support services on GGML’S local content implementation. GEITA Gold Mining (GGML) Limited and the National Economic and Empowerment Council of Tanzania have signed an agreement for consultancy provision whose trickle back would help local communities surrounding the mine. Focusing support services to the communities, the GGML’s local content deal was signed recently in Geita town and would continue for a period of one year, unless a party shows disinterest. Speaking during the ceremony, GGML Sustainability Vice-President, Simon Shayo said the agreement would enhance joint programmes and initiatives to improve the lives of the residents. He said it would enable local communities’ companies to participate in investments after meeting necessary criteria and take part in supply of goods and services to the mining giant. Mr Shayo further said the agreement is also aimed at ensuring that communities around Geita work together, and with the support of the GGML they succeed in business. “At AngloGold Ashanti-Geita Gold Mining Limited, we are committed to the sustainable development of the communities where we operate in. We would like to leave a legacy where the locals participate in sustainable development even after our departure,” he added. “We have continuously demonstrated this at Geita by becoming active partners with the government in improving social services including education, health and agriculture,” said the Sustainability Vice-President. Mr Shayo explains that the GGML was proud to be the best and largest taxpayer in Tanzania, where last year alone, they paid approximately 467 bn/- as taxes. GGML is also known as the leading employer of many nationals, where so far more than 5000 Tanzanians securing a living from it. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary in the Prime Minister's Office responsible for Policy, Coordination and Investment Ms. Dorothy Mwaluko said participation of Tanzanians in various investments was still low because of a number of factors. She cited them as low skills levels, inadequate access to investment capital and inadequate market information among producers. Besides that she pointed out that the country also faces some investment challenges especially inadequate formalization of businesses among their proprietors, which make them fear to participate in local and international procurements. She further explained that in accordance with the Local Content Regulations, Geita Gold Mining Limited will hence; enable the local companies to receive goods and services with ease. “That would enable Tanzanian citizens and Companies to enjoy reasonable cost and become committed in the mutual co-operation based on trust and integrity,” she added.