I was one the officials who full participated in the construction of TAZARA from the surveying stage to the construction till it reached Tunduma.  As Minister of Communications and Works throughout the period of TAZARA’s construction, I took special interest in this project. But first of all, why was TAZARA constructed? In the first place it was constructed to assist the struggle against colonialism, particularly in Southern Africa, to assist our people to achieve their independence. Presidents Julius K. Nyerere and Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia had approached western countries, asking them to finance and construct the railway, but all of them refused and even ridiculed the idea. At the meetings between Chairman Mao Zedong and the two presidents in Beijing, Chairman Mao asked them, “Will this railway help in the liberation of Africa?” The answer was “Yes”, to which he responded, “It shall be built”. That was the beginning. I participated in all stages of the project. I walked almost the entire distance from Kisarawe to Tunduma, and despite all the hardships – walking through jungles with dangerous snakes and animals around, crossing crocodile infested rivers in small canoes ­– I enjoyed the experience. I had the rare chance of getting to know well our friends from China - surveyors, engineers and ordinary workers, admiring their courage, hard work, perseverance and self-sacrifice. I was also happy to see Tanzanian workers working very hard and it was my duty to encourage them to follow the example of the Chinese workers. I got the opportunity to learn a lot about the Chinese people, their history and their culture. Great friendship was forged between the three countries and the peoples. I came to like the Chinese people very much because I got to know how much they suffered under foreign domination and how hard they had fought to liberate their country. Since its completion, TAZARA has brought many benefits to our country. Prior to its existence the country was not opened up. People could not travel even to places nearby and definitely not to Dar es Salaam. They could not transport their agricultural produce to the markets in towns. They, therefore, could not earn any money and improve their life. Natural resources such as coal in the southern part of the country could not be exploited due to lack of transport. Politically, TAZARA connected the country and made people feel that they belonged to the same nation. Even today Tanzania is still reaping the benefits of TAZARA. Another very important benefit, apart from the material ones I have mentioned, is the close friendship that developed and flourished between the Chinese, Tanzanians and Zambians through the construction of TAZARA. We did not know well the Chinese people, or their history before. What we knew was only from the propaganda of western countries, which was very negative. They painted the Chinese people as incapable of building the railway because, they said, China did not produce steel. I once met western journalists and when asked that question, I told them that we would lay the line with bamboos, and when finished we would use Chairman Ma’s Thoughts - that little Red Book to turn the bamboos into steel. I made a joke of it to show how misinformed they were. The construction of TAZARA was imbued with the TAZARA spirit. For me the number one characteristic of the TAZARA spirit was the strong bond that united the workers from the three countries at all levels, the bond that made each individual feel as part of a great historical project that would play a key role in the liberation of countries in Southern Africa and freeing Zambia from the stranglehold of the colonialist and apartheid states of Southern Rhodesia and South Africa. It was also a new working style with friendship, cooperation, self-sacrifice and solidarity among peoples. Friendship and cooperation already existed between the leaders of our three countries as well as between the three governments. The friendship and cooperation between the grass roots was a new development in international relations. All workers who built the TAZARA shared everything equally. No one was left behind and the Chinese treated his or her African counterparts in a brotherly way. In return Tanzanians and Zambians also treated the Chinese workers as their brothers. It was evident that the Chinese workers and their leaders working on TAZARA came with a clear mission - to ensure that the project was built to the highest standards and to complete it on time. That is why hard work, self-sacrifice and cooperation among all the workers were key to the success of the project. At that time, there were intensive propaganda against the Chinese leaders, government and people. Some of our technical experts who studied in the West were initially reluctant to follow and accept scientific and engineering solutions proposed by the Chinese experts. TAZARA symbolizes the friendship and determination of the Chinese people who came to Tanzania and Zambia, and made great sacrifices. It has to be in every way run as a win-win project for the three countries that built it. Its success must be measured in terms of benefits that it continues to render to the Tanzanian and Zambian people but also to other countries in Southern Africa. It must continue to shine as a symbol of friendship between China and Africa. (This article is an excerpt of late Hon. Job Lusinde’s narration about TAZARA in the newly launched book Kumbukumbu la Urafiki Kati ya China na Afrika: Simulizi za Waliokuwapo Wakati wa Ujenzi wa TAZARA, the Swahili Version of A Monument to China-Africa Friendship: Firsthand Account of the Building of the TAZARA.)