CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Presidential candidate, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, is this morning expected to pick the nomination forms from Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) ready for the presidential race early next month. The ruling party’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Ms Catherine Peter Nao, told reporters here yesterday that after collecting the papers from ZEC’s Maisara offices, Dr Mwinyi will join party members and fans at Kisiwandui main offices for merrymaking. “We cordially invite all Zanzibaris—CCM members and non-members—to join their hopeful next president for the big day,” Ms Peter said, insisting that there will be no procession to and from the commission offices: “CCM is the ruling party and will voluntarily comply with the rules and regulations.” She appealed to all political parties to conduct peaceful and civilised campaigns, pledging the ruling party’s respectable pursuit of votes from Tanzanians. “We have a comprehensive election manifesto, which will definitely win the hearts of voters,” she said. The publicity chief was optimistic that the 50,000- person capacity Kisiwandui premises will be filled to the brim, thanks to the party’s “attractive and easily saleable candidate.” “We have the best and most suitable candidate for the current Zanzibar...as a party CCM is fit and ready for the campaigns,” said Ms Peter, adding: “We will observe all the rules and regulations to achieve clean victory in the elections.” She said while the ruling party aims at emerging with at least 85 per cent in Zanzibar elections, the winning prospects in the mainland is over 95 per cent. “Our party has fully implemented its 2015-2020 election manifesto...Tanzanians have no justification not to re-elect President (John) Magufuli,” she theorised. While election campaigns in Tanzania Mainland kick off today through October 27, Zanzibaris will embark on theirs on September 26, 2020 to pave way for pre-poll voting on October 27 ahead of the general elections on October 28, 2020.