TANZANIA Bureau of Standards (TBS) is using the ongoing agricultural exhibitions in Dodoma region to create public awareness on identifying standard marks on goods before consumption. The country’s standards watchdog is also using the annual farmers’ event to encourage business people on the need to register their food and cosmetics premises to meet legal criteria. Speaking here at Nzunguni grounds where the NaneNane fair is taking place, TBS Quality Control Officer, Salome Emmanuel said the event has been an important platform to meet and educate the public on how to identify TBS quality standard mark with the ultimate goal of uprooting substandard goods in the market. She said the quality standard mark is given after the goods have been tested and met the required standards issued by TBS. “This is a wakeup call for all entrepreneurs to acquire TBS quality mark that will help them expand their market within and outside the country, thus contributing to the country’s efforts to build an industrial economy,” she said. Giving an example of the central zone, she said TBS is working closely with sesame and milk farmers to increase the value of their products in order to generate more revenue. She said in a bid to enhance their contribution to the economic growth, the government through TBS is freely imparting knowledge on the need to have quality standard mark in order to penetrate a wider market. She added that TBS is always ready to work with all entrepreneurs to make sure their products meet the required standards. “We urge entrepreneurs from various parts of the central zone to use the annual farmer’s event to visit the TBS pavilion and acquire the quality standard mark,” she noted. She further said that entrepreneurs are encouraged to visit the NaneNane fair to acquire knowledge on how to register food and cosmetics as well as supermarket businesses. She said that through the farmer’s event, they have been addressing various challenges that entrepreneurs encounter in registering their products as well as business premises online.