TWIGA Titans have overtaken Chui Challengers in the race to Advanced Players League title following their seven-wicket win over their opponents in match held at Dar Gymkhana oval in Dar es Salaam, on Thursday. It was a tough encounter as the both sides displayed a spirited show in terms of batting and bowling. The results have placed Twiga Titans at the helm of the APL with eight points after playing five games. They have won four games and lost once. They have then registered net runs rate of 0.87. Twiga Titans also defeated Royal Rhinos by three wickets, then grabbed a 48-run victory over Buffalo, then went on to beat Simba Kings by five wickets and the sevenwicket victory over Chui. They have only lost a game to Tembo who won by 16 runs. After a loss to Twiga, Chui have now remained second after posting six points from their five- game outings; they have secured three wins and lost twice. They have registered a net run rate of 0.54. Second-placed Chui have defeated Tembo by 30 runs, Simba Kings by 47 runs and Royal Rhinos by 23 runs. They lost to Buffalo Blasters by six wickets and Twiga by seven wickets. Standing third are Tembo Stars who are parading four points from three games they have played so far. They have won two games, lost a game with 0.30 net runs rate. If Tembo secure victories with hefty runs in their two next games, against Buffalo Blasters and Simba Kings they might climb to the top of the ladder. Tembo have won 16 runs against Twiga and Royal Rhinos 32 runs before losing by 30 runs to Chui. Simba Kings are placed fourth overall despite tying in points with Tembo. They have played four games and won two and lost two stamping a net run rate of -0.67. Simba have won against Buffalo and Royal Rhinos by three wickets each. They have lost to Chui by 47 runs, Twiga five wickets. Buffalo Blasters are crawling at the fifth place having collected two points from three games they have played. They have won one game and lost two others. They have stamped a net run rate of -0.56. Buffalo beat Chui by 6 wickets and lost two other games to Simba and Twiga. At the bottom are Royal Rhinos who have not won a single game after losing all four games. They have registered -0.92 net run rate. According to Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) Communication Officer, Atif Salim, the two top teams will play in the play-off (Qualifier one) whereas the winner will qualify to play in final while the loser of the play-off will have a second chance to ascend to the final if he wins against the Eliminator (a winner between third place and fourth place team).