YOUNG Africans yesterday insisted they will appeal against the verdict about their contract saga with Bernard Morrison to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). This was disclosed yesterday by the club’s Chairman Mshindo Msolla during a press conference in the city where he insisted that they are not satisfied with the recent ruling by the Legal, Ethics and Players’ Status Committee of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). “There are many irregularities made during the case of which we vehemently believe that there was a foul play by the concerned Committee which deliberately chose to consume three days deliberating on a case which could have lasted even ten minutes. “By taking such time, it means that they (members of the committee) do not have the capacity to handle such type of cases or they were getting pressure from outside to rule in their favour,” noted the chairman. He added that time has come for TFF to choose credible people in its committees who have the ability to make decisions without fear or taking sides. “I understand that it is impossible to get committee members who do not support these two big teams (Simba and Yanga) but we have people who are clean and can make decisions which are fair regardless the side they support otherwise, football development will highly be affected in the country,” Msolla said. He went on: “As a club, we have presented many complaints at the federation but most of them have not been replied like the issue of Morrison who spoke via an audio that some people from Simba gave him money to sign for them. “We delivered that complaints on June 15th this year but until now, we have not been replied something which clearly indicate that they take sides when dealing with complaints brought to them,” Msolla said. He further pointed out that as soon as Morrison released the audio clip, his performance at the club began to dwindle during the follow up games including the 4-1 loss to Simba saying the Ghanaian was not in the game hence an indicator of match fixing. Msolla also said Morrison’s gesture to openly thank Simba members who are present in the committee which judged the case was another example that something was not right. Earlier, the club’s advocate Alex Mgongolwa turned down the latest claims by the committee that they should first seek for review before going to CAS. “The meaning of review is that you have new evidence which were not presented during the initial hearing and for us, we do not have new evidences such that we will go to CAS with the same documents we have,” he said.