ZANZIBAR’s eighth-phase presidency has so far attracted nine candidates, with numerous promises being made to the islanders. Demokrasia Makini’s flag bearer Ameir Hassan Ameir pledged increased remuneration to public servants and a special 500,000/- monthly package to all widows in Zanzibar. The presidential aspirant said education, health and industrial economy would be his top priority if voted into the country’s top office. “Denial of health services to citizens amounts to condemning them to death...no citizen will pay a penny for drugs,” he pledged soon after collecting the nomination papers. He said he will work hard to industrialise the country. “I envision transforming Zanzibar from a recipient into a donor nation.” Mr Issa Mohamed Zongo, presidential aspirant on a Sauti ya Umma (SAU) ticket, speaking to reporters soon after collecting his nomination papers from ZEC Chairman Chief Justice (retired) Hamid Mahmoud Hamid, promised to preserve the country’s cherished possessions, especially the Union and the 1964 revolution. He said should Zanzibaris endorse him for the presidency, he would focus on fortifying the Union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar, saying the merger had so far proved highly beneficial to Zanzibaris in particular. “We, Zanzibaris, have been enjoying many benefits of the Union ...if voted in, I will strive to make it stronger and more beneficial,” remarked the presidential contender. Chama Cha Ukombozi wa Umma’s (CHAUMMA) Ali Omar Juma, pledged massive transformations of the Union to focus on a modern economy. “It’s high time our Union was massively transformed with special focus on modernising the economy,” Mr Omar told journalists soon after collecting the nomination documents. United People’s Democratic Party (UPDP) candidate Hamad Mohamed Ibrahim promised decent health services to all Zanzibaris, especially expectant mothers, saying that under his tenure, no woman would die in the “treasured” course of delivery. Three presidential aspirants picked the forms on Thursday, the second day since ZEC started issuing the papers. African Democratic Alliance Party’s (ADA-TADEA) Juma Ali Khatib, National League for Democracy’s (NLD) Mfaume Khamis and Hamad Rashid Mohamed for Alliance for Democratic Change (ADC) collected theirs on Thursday. Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) flag bearer Dr Hussein Mwinyi and his Alliance for African Farmers Party (AAFP) counterpart Said Soud Said picked their nomination documents on Wednesday.