THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe has commended Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) for its efforts to set up a new commercial printing plant, saying the move will boost the company’s revenue and contribute to national economic growth. The minister made the remark as he toured Standard Printers and witnessed operations of the new Commercial Printing Project owned by the TSN. Dr Mwakyembe said with such projects, the public organisation will no longer depend on funds and other support from government coffers in running its businesses. “This plant will enable TSN which was previously dependent on the Central Government financially to be independent. This move will not only benefit the organisation, but the country at large,” stated the minister. He lauded the TSN management for diversifying the company’s business, saying the new venture will prove to be fruitful as the company stands to generate good income. “I encourage all government departments with printing operations to come to TSN and make use of the modern commercial printing plant,” he asserted. Dr Mwakyembe said that he has seen the effectiveness of the printing plant and explained that the factory’s success is due to the determination of the company’s business leadership. The minister commended the Board and Management of the state-owned company for good supervision and strategic plans which have been implemented since the idea of owning a printing plant was introduced until now when it is visualised and operational. Dr Mwakyembe said the TSN’s growth as a company was a continuation of notable achievements under the fifth-phase government; stressing that such a factory would enable the institution to be financially self-sufficient, he reiterated. The state-of-the art commercial printing press, worth 2.7bn/-, began operations in April, this year, revealed the Acting Printing Press Manager, Mr Boniface Mwajombe. He mentioned that the modern printing machine offers various services, including printing books, calendar, leaflets, posters, reports, diaries, banners and many other documents. “The idea was initiated in 2012, and from 2014 to 2019 the project was in process, whereas now it is fully operational for 24 hours a day; and it is reliable, and efficient,” noted Mr Mwajombe.