GIVEN the new digital efiling system which has just been introduced by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in Arusha, returns can now be filed 24-hours a day, seven-days a week and anywhere on the globe. TRA has launched a special electronic tax return system aimed at reducing or totally eliminating clients’ trips to TRA offices when it comes to matters of settling their tax returns and other forms of communication regarding revenue services. “The advantage of an EFiling system is that people will no longer have to wait until the ordinary working days, or working hours, but can file their returns even over the weekends and during the night,” explained the TRA Commissioner General (CG) Dr Edwin Mhede. Speaking at the Arusha revenue offices where the new system was being launched, Dr Mhede explained that the ‘E-Filling’ structure will cater for ‘Pay as You Earn’ taxes, income tax for individuals, corporation taxes, withholding taxes, VAT, as well as skills and development levies. However, according to the Commissioner General of TRA, people and corporate firms involved in extractive industries, including minerals, gas and petroleum, are not yet covered under the e-filing system and will continue to settle their returns manually and physically at the TRA offices in their respective regions. “Those in extractive industries will have to wait for some time until their own special structure for the e-filing system has been finalized for them; the TRA is working on the arrangements,” said Dr Mhede. On his part, the Director of Information and Communication Technology (DICT) for the Tanzania Revenue Authority, Mr Charles Palapala, said the e-filing system is already functioning and its portal can be accessed through a link found on the TRA website. A tax consultant, Ms Pamela Salehe, said many business persons used to be fined for delayed tax returns after being late for only a few minutes before TRA offices closure but with the digital filing, this problem is solved. “Once there, one can create their own Control Number using the Personal Identification Number (PIN), which will assist them in settling their transactions. Through this system, tax-payers will now be automatically reminded to settle their returns when the time is ripe,” Mr Palapala maintained. On his part, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Board Chairman, Dr Suleiman Misango, said the authority is also conducting mass induction to all residents, educating them on how to use the new system in handling their revenue transactions.