THE Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) yesterday announced the opening of the undergraduate students’ admission window for the 2020/2021 academic year. The first phase started yesterday and will run through September 25, 2020, the Commission's Executive Secretary, Prof Charles Kihampa said yesterday in Dar es Salaam. Prof Kihampa said qualified students should send their request directly to universities of their choice. "The Commission calls upon potential students to access official admission information through its www.tcu.go.tz website, from accredited  universities to offer undergraduate programmes as well as media out-lets aired by the TCU," he said. The Executive Secretary implored students to visit the upcoming Universities' exhibitions which are set to take place from August 31 to September 5, at Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam region for further information on the admission procedures. He affirmed that almost all higher learning Institutions have confirmed their participation, insisting that it is pertinent for prospective applicants to visit the exhibitions for direct talks with relevant universities' personnel. Prof Kihampa warned applicants against using middle men who have been emerging in every admission season to serve as agents and consultants. "The admission processes are simple and transparent. In case somebody faces any challenge they should consult us. The Commission's doors are open all the time. No need to be conned by middle-men.  What I can remind applicants is that all applications must be electronically sent....hard copies have no chance," he insisted. He called on applicants to read the 2020/2021 Undergraduate Admission Guidebook, made available on the Commission's website, for further understanding on the types of programmes offered at all Universities. Those with academic certificates issued abroad should submit their credentials to relevant authorities, mostly the National Examinations Council of Tanzania (NECTA and National Council for Technical Education (NACTE), for verification, before they go for application processes. It was further stated that October 4, 2020 will be the deadline of submission of the list of names of students admitted in the first round, while announcement to the public of the names of students admitted in the first round will be made October 9, this year. The second round for application is set to commence from October 12 to 18, and the deadline of the submission of the list of names of students admitted will be on October 24. The available data show that TCU coordinated 99,014 undergraduate applications for the 2019/2020 academic year with 57,328 being male and 41,686 female.