TANZANIA basketball player Amin Mkosa has been cleared to play for a local club as he still hopes to go to Malawi for his professional stint after the end of Covid-19 scare. Mkosa, who recently landed a professional deal to play for Malawian basketball giants, Bravehearts, was forced to wait for International clearance from his former team, Power of Uganda. The Malawian giants have recruited Mkosa as move to bolster their squad ahead of the Fiba Africa Club championship next year, Mkosa and Donbosco Lioness player Olyne Londo have been waiting for over a month now hoping Malawi to shrug off coronavirus scare soon. But the Malawian giants have given the duo a permission to  play in Dar es Salaam Regional (RBA) League while waiting for a situation to return to normal in Malawi. “We are fortunate to have Bravehearts blessing to play in RBA League, it's good opportunity that keeps us fit and be ready once everything is cleared,” he said. Mkosa decided to join Kurasini Heat during his transition period, but he could not play because he was yet to receive an international clearance. He went on to tell the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that he is now free to play and was happy to be back into competition with Kurasini Heat over the weekend. Mkosa was part of Kurasini Heat team that recorded an impressive 86-73 victory over Vijana City Bulls in the exciting game at Kurasini Harbour in the city. “It was exciting moment, I thank Kurasini Heat for this opportunity and also regard to Bravehearts who allowed me to play. “It took me a while to get an international clearance, my new passport process has contributed much to the delay,” he added. Mkosa noted that his target now is to help the team, currently at the fourth with 17 points from 9 matches, to finish among the top four. “I understand the league is very tough, each team is well-prepared and hard to beat. This makes the league very competitive. Still, I hope my team has a chance to play at the top four play-off,” he said. Kurasini Heat who have played nine games, are three points behind the leaders JKT who have collected 20 points, followed at second position by ABC with 19 points and the third-placed Pazi are also parading 19 points having played ten games. Mkosa stressed: “We need to maintain our pace and focus to stay into a comfortable zone. We need to do our part and wait for luck.”