PRESIDENT John Magufuli has stressed the need for empowerment of girls and young women to ensure Tanzania’s inclusive progress at all levels. The Head of State, thus, reaffirmed his government’s determination to identify, promote and develop talents in girls and young women for individual and national prosperity. Dr Magufuli made the statement on the phone call to the CCM Ideology and Publicity Secretary Mr Humphrey Polepole during a Girl Power conference that brought together young women from various sectors in the country. Dr Magufuli made a surprise phone call when Mr Polepole was hosting the event, commending the organisers for coming up with such an idea. “I have been impressed with the programme, I suggest that it is maintained so that we can continue to discover more talents from young women for them to be empowered,” said President Magufuli. The flourishing of the large number of girls and young women will add a new dimension to the country’s ongoing progress, Dr Magufuli insisted. The President’s phone call and the theme of the conference attracted the Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, who was following the programme on television from her residence. She then felt the urge to attend the conference that was held at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC). “Initially, we didn’t expect if this conference would be big to this level, I was following on TV by the time President Magufuli made a phone call, and then I developed an interest to attend by myself,” she explained. Adding, “I then asked my aides if there was a possibility for me to come and they had no objection, as a result I’m here, my apologies for coming without any notice”. In her speech, the Vice- President said in most of the countries women are not yet well utilised, but in Tanzania, things are different as the importance of women in national developmentcan be seen everywhere. She then challenged women to continue participating in national development for their talents to be seen as they have great potential in the country. Like President Magufuli, Mama Samia also commended the organisers for bringing together young women from all walks of life to share their experiences in such a productive conference.