AZAM became the first big club in the country to seal a transfer deal after completing a two year signing of creative midfielder Awesu Awesu from Kagera Sugar where he successfully served last season. With the signing which was materialised on Thursday, it means Awesu will remain at the Ice cream makers side until 2022 hence breaking the chain as he was also being closely hunted by Young Africans as one of their main target for domestic players prior to next season. In his brief remarks, the dreadlocked player said he is happy to return home as he previously played in the club’s junior side before opting to leave to seek green pastures elsewhere. “No player can regret joining Azam because they are among the big clubs in the country and I will therefore do my utmost to prove my potential at this great team,” said Awesu. On his part, the club’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Abdulkarim Amin said they are making the signings as recommended by the report submitted by Head Coach Aristica Cioaba. “Immediately after last season, the coach brought a list of 12 local players he need to have in the squad and after a thorough scrutiny of the names, we managed to come up with five names to be signed and Awesu is one of them,” Amin said. He added that other positions they want to strength before next season include two defenders, one defensive midfielder, two wingers plus one potential striker to sharpen up what he said a blunt striking force seen last season. Moreover, Amin said they are also searching a goalkeeper after announcing that former Ghanaian shot stopper Razack Abalora has been released following expiry of his contract. “The coach wants to have a big squad next season and it is good that he has managed to complete the season with the team meaning that next season, he will be in a better position to take it further,” said him. Meanwhile, sport pundits have described the Awesu signing as a great move for Azam considering the player’s abilities saying he is good to drive the team forward and has a goal scoring eye too. Azam finished on third slot last season behind Yanga and champions Simba SC after their target to end on second place was unfruitful.