TANZANIA Bureau of Standards (TBS) has called on all dealers of the regulated products and premises for foods and cosmetics to register their premises. The call was made yesterday by TBS  Inspector for Lake Zone, Mr Nelson Mugema, during the ongoing 27th NaneNane Agricultural Exhibitions in Bariadi District of Simiyu Region. Mr Mugema told the 'Daily News' that premises and product registration are legal requirements that must be fulfilled by all those engaged in the business of food and cosmetics according to the Standard Act, No. 2 of 2009 amended by the Finance Act, 2019. "The Act also restricts manufacture for sale, supply or store food, food products or cosmetics except in premises registered under the Act," he noted. According to the Act, he said, no person shall manufacture, import, distribute, sell or expose for sale pre-packaged food and cosmetics unless the products are registered by the Bureau. "Any person interested in selling, storing food and cosmetics must register the business premise with the Bureau before commencing the business operations, he/she should obtain a business licence for trading specific product. Licenses are usually renewed at intervals of one year (usually on 1st July each year)," Mr Mugema said. Dealers should voluntarily comply with not only the requirements for product and premises registration but also other requirements as provided under the Financial Act 2019/2020. "Voluntary compliance by product dealers is considered by the Bureau as the most effective means of providing adequate protection of consumers against hazards related to consumption of unsafe products," he asserted. He also reminded operators that all activities that were conducted by the then Tanzania Foods and Drugs Authority (TFDA) relating to quality assurance and safety of food and cosmetics products have now been transferred to TBS effective last July. The inspector said registration services are offered at the ongoing NaneNane agricultural exhibition but those who will not get a chance to do so can visit TBS zonal offices wherever they are or register through Online Application System (OAS). On their participation in the fair, he said they provide education on product quality assurance to help farmers and livestock keepers to increase product value and market scope especially in the East African countries. "We also provide education on how to store their produce especially on how to control aflatoxin in foods such as groundnuts, tree nuts, maize, rice, figs and other dried foods, spices, crude vegetable oils and cocoa beans, as a result of fungal contamination before and after harvest," he said.