CHAMA Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo ( Chadema) has launched its general election campaigns with its presidential flag bearer Tundu Lissu holding the inaugural rally at Mbagala Zekhiem grounds in Dar es Salaam. However the launching of the campaigns was conducted without unveiling its election manifesto. A considerable number of supporters turned up at the public rally where all its candidates vying for parliamentary seats for the Constituencies in Dar es Salaam were in attendance. Chadema Party National Chairman Freeman Mbowe and other party leaders, including the party’s parliamentary candidate for Arusha Urban Constituency Godbless Lema also attended the campaign’s inaugural rally. Mr Lissu is among fifteen candidates seeking to be elected to the top most leadership post in the country. The party, if elected to power, pledged to form a government that would emphasize on human rights, humanity and equality. Chadema was scheduled to launch its campaigns on Friday as per the timetable released by the National Electoral Commission (NEC). The party endorsed Mr Lissu as the party’s flag-bearer for the presidential race, alongside his running mate, Salumu Mwalimu. The party presidential campaigns, like for other political parties participating in the 2020 General Election, come after the NEC’s endorsement of presidential candidates. Tanzanians will this year cast their votes on Wednesday 28th October---the first time ever for the General Election to be held on a weekday since Tanzania started conducting elections under multiparty democracy in 1995. The NEC had directed the political parties to begin campaigns from August 26 up to October 27, a day before the voting date. The commission started issuing presidential nomination forms from Wednesday, August 5 at the NEC’s offices located at Njedengwa in the capital city of Dodoma. All candidates have been directed to conduct peaceful campaigns that address issues. The government, all along, has cautioned political parties against condoning violence and use of abusive language, insisting that it will not tolerate such malpractices.