SEA Cliff Resort & Spa Golf Course of Mangapwani, Zanzibar has resumed operation with the Monthly Mug tournament that tees off today at the club’s course. The tournament is back at the Sea Cliff for the first time after a five-month hiatus due to coronavirus scare. Elias Soka, the club’s Manager told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Zanzibar that the course is immaculate and ready to host the golf comeback today. Soka said that preparation has been finalized for them to stage the August’s Monthly Mug competition. He said the men and ladies who have been drafted for the 18-hole tournament are Tanzanians and a few multinationals. Soka thanked the event’s sponsors ZIMM, Beach House, Amarura, Sharazad Botique Hotel, FRASI Africa and Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Zanzibar for adding value to the tournament. “We welcome all golfers to join us at the competition, the course is wonderful with gentle seas breeze that will make everyone enjoy the golf,” he said. Soka added: “We are delighted to announce Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Zanzibar has been reopened since July 31st 2020 and now we would like to thank you for your continued support and we look forward to welcoming you so that to create an amazing experience for you. “Tanzania is now open for tourists! Please visit and supports Tanzanian tourism Sector.” The club opens its doors for golfers to enjoy the sport since the government allowed all sports activities to resume in June as among preventive measures against the spread of deadly virus. He said they are blessed to have again an opportunity to come back at the beautiful course with a good tournament. The Coronavirus crisis has seen several prestigious competitions being suspended or cancelled that includes Rotary Golf Day due to be held on March 21st. The annual charity tournament which was to be organised by Rotary Club of Zanzibar at the club’s course was aimed at raising funds for the needy community in the Isles. After Rotary Golf Day cancellation, also faced the same suspended was the Easter Golf Tournament which was to be staged on April 26th this year.