AS the General Election campaign marathon flags off tomorrow, the Inter-religious Peace Committee of Tanzania yesterday urged politicians to shun uncivilised campaigns. The committee officials stressed that upholding peace and tranquility remains as a key objective and everyone’s responsibility. According to the schedule published by the National Electoral Commission (NEC), campaigns for the upcoming general election will run from tomorrow through October 27, this year. Today is the deadline for presidential candidates to submit filled nomination forms at the NEC headquarters in Dodoma. NEC Chairman Judge (rtd) Semistocles Kaijage said yesterday that the commission will be screening submissions of 17 political parties, whose members are vying for the union presidency. He said immediately after the commission approves candidates for the presidency, members of parliament and councillors, the window to appeal the nomination will be opened from 4pm today to 4pm tomorrow. He said only the aspirants, the returning officers, and the Attorney General can appeal the nomination. “All the presidential hopefuls will have to submit their application forms tomorrow (today) for nomination. Those vying for members of parliament seats will be screened by the constituency returning officer—the same to the councillorship,” he said. According to NEC’s Director of Elections, Dr Wilson Charles, presidential aspirants were required to fill in four sets of Form No. 8A that consist of 10 pages each that would be used collecting guarantors in 10 regions, at least two of them from Zanzibar. According to the law, nomination forms for presidential candidates need to be signed by at least 200 guarantors by party members, who are registered in the permanent voter’s registry. The forms must be filled and signed before the High Court Judge with candidates accepting and promising to abide by election ethics which is a legal demand. And, in run up to the campaigns, which will culminate with the October 28th General Election, the Inter-religious Peace Committee's Chairman Sheikh Alhad Mussa Salum, said politicians and especially, candidates must avoid personal attacks, insults and violent campaigns to help maintain peace and stability. “Candidates vying for a various elective position must understand Tanzania is for us all and peace must come first. They must exhibit patriotism and conduct civilized campaigns,” Sheikh Salum said at a special congregation bringing cleric leaders, election stakeholders and members of diplomatic missions in the country. The gathering at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma was also held strategically to hail President John Magufuli for his firm leadership, notably during the fight against the deadly coronavirus pandemic and in championing social and economic reforms. Sheikh Salum said politicians must learn to be tolerant and civilised. He also urged the public to vote for leaders who are God-fearing and people who would not bring division but unify each and every individual. Sheikh Salum urged NEC to exercise fairness and integrity in order to ensure an effective General Election. “We invited the NEC and the Police Force here, believing these agencies have greater potential as we have seen their efforts to ensure the elections are smoothly held," he said. The Islamic Foundation Chairman Aref Nahdi said the country had been blessed, having the incumbent president and urged religious leaders to help sensitise the public to vote for right leaders. He said Magufuli had helped the country to reach middle income economic status. For his side, Executive Director of the Mwalimu Nyerere Foundation, Mzee Joseph Butiku, said "we all must agree" that President Magufuli has contributed immensely in addressing challenges that the country had faced in its 59years of independence. He wanted people not to be ashamed of praising the good work that has come under president Magufuli’s administration, insisting that while other leaders had their role in creating an enabling environment the head of the state has surpassed people's expectations. The 82-year old recited that when Nyerere founded the institution in 1999, the focus was on spearheading peace, unity and people-centered development. “The founding leaders risked their lives to set strong foundations for leadership that consider dignity, equality, democracy and justice without discrimination. “The country was astray; he said, adding, “We lost the ability to manage our resources such as minerals. Corruption ruled our lives and children are into drugs. A lot of public properties were illegally owned by individuals, people failed to pay taxes and many projects were stalled or disappeared completely.” He, therefore, warned the public over candidates who are giving out bribes in exchange for leadership posts, saying such people must be scared. The delegates attending the gathering also joined hands in support of President Magufuli's initiative to raise funds for the construction of a mosque at Chamwino Ikulu in Dodoma. Islamic Foundation pledged 10.005m/-, Azim Dewji also pledged 10m/-, Anthony Mavunde 1m/- and ADA-TADEA presidential candidate and the Chairperson of the Tanzania Political Parties' Council, John Shibuda donated 100,000/-.