IN one of the efforts to implement the equality agenda, the newly elected Mwanza Regional Volleyball Association (MWAREVA) office bearers have put in place several activities for both genders and the junior level project. As explained by MWAREVA Chairman, David Neeke, his association is now organising Ladies Volleyball Bonanza whose aim is to promote volleyball and impact more skills to ladies. The first of its kind, the Ladies Volleyball Bonanza is scheduled to be held at Mirongo courts in Mwanza this Sunday. Neeke said that preparation for the daylong bonanza has been finalised and that six teams have already confirmed to participate in event. He named the teams as Misungwi, Igombe, SAUT (Saint Augustine University of Tanzania), Magu, Sengerema and BOT. “We are happy to organise such an event for ladies teams, this will be our second event since we have been elected to the office. We want gender equality as the first bonanza that took place earlier and won by Transit Camp (MTC) didn’t involve ladies. “We are also delighted to see the ladies teams responding well to invitation to come at their first bonanza,” added Neeke. He insisted the Sunday bonanza besides making ladies shine their skills, also aims to bring ladies together and intensify friendship among them. “MWAREVA has planned to ensure all genders had equal chance to develop, thus we start organising these event,” said Neeke. He stressed that MWAREVA understands that ladies have best chance to grow in the game, but they have been left behind for long time, so have to put efforts to ensure they fulfill the goal. Adding, Neeke said while promoting ladies volleyball, Mwareva is working hard in improving juniors programme as well. “We have also plan to put in place regional men’s team that will represent Mwanza at national and other event,” he said. The chairman has added that his association is also preparing Junior Boys and Girls leagues. He said Mwanza region has been blessed with abundance of talented youth and its association’s responsibility is to develop them to quality players. Neeke, the national beach volleyball player, has been playing for Equity Bank of Kenyan Volleyball League that has currently been halted due to global coronavirus scare.