AT exactly 11:59pm tonight, the transfer window will be officially closed meaning that all transfer deals to be accomplished thereafter will not be recognised by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). It has been one of the busiest transfer period in the country for all domestic football leagues which are the Mainland Premier League, First Division League (FDL), Second Division League (SDL) as well as the Serengeti Women's Premier League. For the sake of Women's League, it was Simba Queens who were seen publicly signing deals with new players so as to reinforce their team and be able to clinch the title for the second time in a row next season. Generally, most teams took a front role to rebuild their respective squads prior to the next season with the top flight league slated to ascend on September 6th where six matches will be played. As usual, the top three giant clubs in the country Simba, Young Africans and Azam openly performed their transfers and since there is a tendency of not declaring the worth of the signed players, it remains a big puzzle to know which club has spent highly than the rest. One of the big transfers which made headlines was the one involving former Yanga player Bernard Morrison who crossed the line to join traditional rivals Simba. His deal was the talk of the nation since it was controversial in nature prompting TFF's Disciplinary Committee to jump which later gave a green light to Morrison to join any club. Also, another deal which attracted attention of many people was the administrative one which saw Yanga hijacking former Simba Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingisa something which came as a surprise to many. Unlike the player transfer deals which rumours start to escalate before sealing the move, for the issue of Mazingiza, there were neither rumours nor speculations until pictures of him signing for Yanga emerged. Definitely, one can confidently say it was a historic move for the deal since in Tanzania football, administration transfers are not common. Again, if the move of Azam FC midfielder Salum Abubakar 'Sure Boy' to Yanga was successful, it could have also be among the top domestic deals to be done in the elapsing transfer period. But, deal later paralysed as the two sides reportedly failed to reach an agreement over his expense. However, in terms of the club which signed many players both local and foreign based ones is probably Yanga since after offloading 16 of their last season's players, they had to replace them with new faces to create a balanced team. But, recently, Yanga's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli was quoted saying their squad is worth over 2bn/- something which is hard to assess as the purchasing amount of players is not easily disclosed.