INCUMBENT President John Magufuli, who doubles as Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) National Chairman, yesterday picked up Union presidential nomination forms from the National Electoral Commission (NEC) Headquarters in Dodoma. Dr Magufuli is seeking to clinch the presidency once more, to serve the country for the second term in the highest office of the land and continue to implement all pending development projects initiated by the fifth phase government. NEC Chairman, Judge (rtd) Semistocles Kaijage presented the forms to Dr Magufuli and briefed him on how they should be filled prior to returning them. According to the NEC Director of Elections, Dr Wilson Mahera, the forms were presented to the CCM candidate after receiving an official letter from the party, indicating that Dr Magufuli was the endorsed candidate and that Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan was his running mate. President Magufuli explained that the party he leads had done a lot in the implementation of the 2015/2020 Election Manifesto. “I have decided to seek an additional five years in office so that I can supervise the implementation of all pending development projects that are still at the implementation stage,” he said at the party’s headquarters here, shortly after picking the forms. Dr Magufuli, who is the ruling party’s flag bearer for the October 28 General Election, became the fourth presidential candidate to collect nomination forms after his challengers from three opposition parties. The candidates who collected forms on Wednesday are Leopard Mahona from the National Reconstruction Alliance (NRA), Seif Maalim Seif of Alliance for African Farmers Party (AAFP) and Philip Fumbo from the Democratic Party (DP). There are only 20 days left, effective last Wednesday, for candidates from registered political parties to pick and return presidential nomination forms to NEC’s offices located at Njedengwa in Dodoma. This means that, after August 25, the deadline for returning forms, all presidential candidates who will be endorsed by the electoral body to vie for the presidency, will invest their energies in the electoral battle ahead, each one eager to emerge victorious. Flanked by his running mate and incumbent Vice-President, Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, CCM Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally, Speaker of the National Assembly Job Ndugai and UWT Chairperson, Gaudencia Kabaka, among others, Dr Magufuli arrived at NEC headquarters a few minutes before 10:00 am. There was jubilation, pomp and fanfare at CCM headquarters popularly known as White House when the party chairman arrived from NEC Headquarters to greet enthusiastic party members and supporters. Dr Magufuli and the party’s running mate were welcomed by hundreds of party cadres and supporters, who were chanting different songs outside the party headquarters. The occasion was made livelier by a show staged by the party’s popular Band, TOT Plus, ahead of the much awaited election campaigns scheduled to kick off on August 26. Speaking at the occasion, Dr Magufuli told party supporters and members that he had requested party officials that election campaigns be launched in the country’s capital. Dr Magufuli reiterated that he had decided to seek the second term in office because he didn’t see any person who could facilitate the accomplishment of the pending projects that he had initiated since he took oath of office five years ago. Dr Magufuli cited some of them as the ongoing Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Julius Nyerere Hydro-electric power project and Rural Energy Agency (REA) projects as well as social service oriented ones. Speaking at the occasion, the Vice-President said during the past five years, CCM had succeeded in proving social services to people, including health, free compulsory education, reducing maternal and new born deaths and electricity supply. “I want to commend my party for helping the women of this country because they were the ones suffering most before we came to power…I am also paying tribute to the party chairman for building trust in women in leadership.