WITH Namungo heading for the bright 2020/21 season its home venue, Majaliwa Stadium is being shaped to host the team’s glorious season. The good job being done there was highly motivating and the government has commended the ongoing rehabilitation works saying it is a good example worth emulation by other clubs in the country. That was said by the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe who recently toured the facility and was full of acknowledgements thereafter. "To be honest, Majaliwa Stadium is one of the beautiful arenas in the country which has attracted attention from my ministry and I am very happy with the ongoing upgrading works. "What has impressed me a lot is the status of the pitch which is of high quality and this surely indicates that to take care of the natural pitch, it needs constant maintenance like what is happening here," he said. He then labelled the venue as having international standard requirements capable to stage any high profile football games. "I understand that the investment here is big which has enabled all these development activities to take place easily and I am also convinced to see that there are four dressing rooms similar to the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium which is something worth recognition," said Mwakyembe. According to him, the presence of referees and match commissioners changing rooms at the venue is simply awesome and urged other clubs to emulate what is going on at Majaliwa Stadium. "I can confidently say that once the renovations are complete, this will be one of the most beautiful stadiums in the country," said he. The facility is used as the hosting venue for the top flight league side Namungo FC who will fly high the national colours in the forthcoming CAF Confederations Cup games. They earned the prestigious honour after reaching into the finals of the last season's Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) where they lost 2-1 to champions Simba SC. However, with the ongoing upgrading works at their territory, it means their CAF matches will be played in Ruangwa for the first time.