THE kick off for the Vodacom Premier League is not far away with lightweights opening the league on September 6th that is almost a week from today. The big boys, Simba and Young Africans will take to the field later when they have already sampled lightweights and measured themselves against them, if you like, against the small teams. For now, the show is still going on having been first set rolling by Simba who paraded their new players they have recruited locally and ‘internationally. ‘Young Africans’ show as usual is yet to start. But it would be as good as that already paraded by their arch soccer rivals, Simba. Lightweights have not had the opportunity to do what both Simba and Young Africans have done. This is because almost all their players have been recruited locally. They don’t have the money the big boys have for recruiting foreign players. Yet year in, year out, they have provided the main source of recruitment for local players for the big boys. For instance, two of the best defenders in this country have been grabbed up by Simba and Young Africans. Young Africans were the first to knock on the Coastal Union’s ‘door’ for the two defenders. And had actually wanted to grab both players with the express purpose of forming a formidable pair. Having managed to bag in the first defender, the second defender was expected to arrive in Dar by bus from Tanga. But their traditional rivals were smarter. They did not allow the young man to reach Dar. They bagged in before arriving in Dar! I don’t know what has become of Yanga. The Yanga I knew in 1970s and 80s were sharper. They always grabbed on time whomever they wanted to play for them. My mnyalukolo Dr Mshindo Msolla will certainly have to pull up his proverbial socks. Rumourville has it that the player was presented with a contract and money he could not turn down. And this is what I would like to dwell on today. Yes, I think it is time the Tanzania Football Federation came up with stiff rules governing transfer of players from one club to another.It is time the federation stopped this ambush style of registering local and foreign players and instead this process should be made more transparent. Transparency in the local transfer market will also help local players in getting the right fee for their value as professional soccer players. For instance, I don’t understand why our local lawyers or people who claim to be lawyers don’t seize this golden opportunity of getting local players in their stable. Surely, they need to get into this platform not only to practice their trade but also to make money and assist our local players to get what they really deserve in the transfer market. And the local players need to wake up from their deep slumber. Until now, we have heard of stories about Tanzanian soccer players being paid, during registration, say 100 million Tanzanian shillings. It is quite fine. But what are, say, a player’s right when it comes to his salary and other fringe benefits? He has been bought for 100m/-. How much is he going to earn per month and for how many years? What about when he is retained by the club in the following season? Is he going to be paid anything or would his salary and other fringe benefits be increased? I’m raising this question because there is already an incident with one of the two arch soccer rivals in which a couple of players were retained without being paid anything. As expected, they did not only complain, but they also asked for money. Your guess is as good as mine. They were told to in their face to look for other clubs! And the players I’m talking about are not cheap, they are Tanzanian internationals. When they failed to get other clubs, they apologized to the club in question and the story that is doing the rounds says they are being considered by the club that had told them to look for other clubs! Now I don’t think this is right. And the TFF needs to come forward and throw its weight in. The same thing could be said about our lawyers who are in galore. They need to come forward and get easy money. They need to assist these hapless players. European agents who are making big money in trading players started from very humble beginning. And who knows, our lawyers could soon join the foreign legion of lawyers-cum-soccer players agents. But they need to start with our local players. Law just like journalism requires practice. You don’t practice, you are done. Serengeti Boys wonder boy, Kelvin John, is presently in Europe. But the people who are going to earn big money from the Tanzanian teenager are very much likely to come from Europe! We need to wake up and now. The fact that both Simba and Young Africans can only get local players from Tanzanian clubs means that the local clubs could each get the best eleven players and give both Simba and Young Africans a run for their money. The question is, why are they not doing just that? Nothing would excite me if we get to a level where Simba and Yanga lose some of their matches against clubs which have not foreign players. Once that happens, we would have arrived where we want to get to.