FOURTH December 2012 at mid-day, Sauda (not her real name) would not forgot the day that dawned with her losing her five family members in a car crash at Tanangozi village in Iringa region. The deceased were heading to Mbeya from Dar es Salaam to start a new life after their father was promoted at his workplace and had to be transferred to the Southern Highlands region. On their way to the new home they decided to use their family car (Rav4) that was driven by their father having left Dar as Salaam by around 4.00 am with the aim of reaching Mbeya a bit early and get enough time to rest. In the car there was also their mother, who was carrying their two-year old baby boy, her sister and their house help. After driving about 516 kilometres from Dar es Salaam and left with 313.5 km to go, the family was involved in ghastly road accident that claimed the lives of five of them on the spot, leaving Sauda surviving with some small injuries to narrate the ordeal. “I was six years old by then, and we were excited to travel together to Mbeya to start a new life following our father’s transfer.  Every one of us couldn’t wait to arrive in the region following beautiful stories we had heard about it. “A sat back in the car in the middle of my sister on the right and our house gal on the left side, who was constantly helping our mum to tend to our last born,” she recalled. Around 12.30 pm after arriving at Tanangozi village some 26 km to Iringa Municipal, the vehicle rammed into a semi-trailer cargo truck from behind and cut short our journey. While fighting tears, she says since then she has been experiencing the most difficult moment in her life flashing the scene, adding: “Until today, I really don’t know how I survived the fatal, apart from sustaining some injuries on my left foot and shoulder. Initially I didn’t know that they had died… I was only screaming that they all wake-up and take care of my injuries, only to be told by villagers, who had gathered around that they are all dead.” By then Sauda was in Standard One, while her sister was in Standard Six and all studying in a private school in Dar es Salaam. As they were relocating to Mbeya, her parents had planned to take them to a school, where they would study together, but the dream was short-lived and never bore fruits. As she narrates the ordeal, she says the accident robbed her of all goodies she used to enjoy from her parents, let alone the major education and other basics. It is an undisputed fact that any road accident(s) imposes unnecessary burden to the country and an individual, who must incur some expenses like money to purchase drugs and related stuff, funds that would have supported other sector(s). As for Sauda, before the tragedy she was studying in a private English medium school, where her parents were affording school fees, but after their death, she was left in the hands of her grandmother, who couldn’t foot the bills, and hence, forced to move to an ordinary school, contrary to Sauda’s expectations. This is a painful experience to the young girl, whose good life was being turned upside down, simply because road accident cut short the life of their breadwinner parents. Report from the World Bank (WB) titled ‘The High Toll of Traffic Injuries; Unacceptable and Preventable’ shows that traffic accidents apart from bringing loss to the families, also have negative impacts on the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Analysis of the report from findings gathered from 135 countries including China, India, and the Philippines, has it that Tanzania for the past 24 years experienced deaths and injuries, which could have been cut by half. In Tanzania, official data from the Ministry of Home Affairs and Police Force shows that in 2016 the country recorded a total of 10,297 road accidents, which caused 3,381 deaths and left 9,549  injured. The statistics also shows that between 2016 and 2019  in Tanzania,  5,809 died in 6,436 road accidents that the World Bank further cites and the major cause of mortality and long term disability among people aged 15 and 29 in their prime working age. In most accidents that occur in the country, all fingers are pointed to drivers, who either over speed or drive recklessly if other factors like mechanical faults and poor infrastructures are put aside. Very few observe the allowed speed limit in urban and other human settlement areas’ stipulation of 50km/h and non-residential areas-80km/h . Commenting on the issue, Tanzania Chief of Police Traffic Unit, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP), Fortunatus Musilimu said: “Over speeding and reckless driving have been the main attributes of road crashes. Here drivers of the upcountry buses violate the speed limit, hence put the lives of passengers, pedestrians at risk.” According to WB report, every year 1.25 million people lose their lives in road accidents, leaving 20 to 50 million others seriously injured, despite the fact that 90 per cent of the accidents occur in in low-and middle income countries weighed down by public health and economic burdens. Due to this, the government through the Traffic unit has been monitoring the speed of all motor vehicles in regional roads and highways to ensure that laws are observed by all drivers and those who violate them become punished. The punishments in most cases are in the form of 30,000/-charged as fine against errant drivers, who drive recklessly, ignore Zebra signs, and drive under the influence of alcohol. “In this situation, a driver can also face a ban by having his driving licence suspended for a period of six months, and this is to show that how serious the government is,” said Traffic Polices Legal Officer Superintendent of Police (SP) Deus Sokoni, in an interview with the 'Daily News'. However, he said they would continue to remind drivers on the importance of respecting road regulations for the safety and prosperity of the nation. While tabling the budget estimates of his docket in the Parliament, the Home Affairs Minister, Mr George Simbachawene for the 2020/21financial year, said some 189 drivers had their driving licenses nullified as a result of various traffic offences between July 2019 and March this year. In doing so, SACP Musilimu said his office had cancelled six more licenses in April, noting that they would continue weeding out errant drivers on the highways. “But we will continue to reinforce road safety laws and make sure that stern legal measures are taken against all drivers who are caught violating laws.  There are some instances of drivers, who have been taken to court and their driving licenses are in our hands as a lesson also to others,” he pointed out. Speaking on different occasions, bus and truck drivers shared a mixed opinion on fines and penalties imposed on them by the State, with some commending the police that it curbs unnecessary road accidents. One of the drivers, Mohamed Mkuya of Luwinzo Express Company that plies between Dar es Salaam, Njombe and Ubaruku, said the government should be commended by all stakeholders for being strict on road use. “This is a wake-up call to all of us, because sometimes we relax a lot while on highways, it’s good to have Police Officers, who monitor our speed and general behaviour when we are on the highway,” he added. On his part, the fines and other stipulated penalties are essential for safe driving and to a large extent help to minimize unnecessary road accidents. His views are in line with the comments of one of the drivers of Dar Express, Shabani Kikoti who pointed out that road safety rules and regulations, if properly followed would also minimize presence of traffic cops on highways. “We work to get money and feed our families, but when we mess around on the road, we must get penalties, which affect our incomes, hence this should be a reminder to all motorists to behave and drive maturely,” he added. Commenting,  Goodlove Gadau, a truck driver said: “Some bus drivers cruise at 70km/h in a 50km/h stipulation area, and hence deserve any harsh punishment.” Elaborating, he was in support of the fines and penalties saying that without them road accidents would be on the rise in the country. “The purpose of imposing traffic fine is to reduce road accidents, which result in lives being lost, let alone injuries and with the statistics issued by the government through the media, it is evident that the fines have a positive impact on reducing road accidents,” said Gadau.