THE management of University of Dodoma (Udom) has vowed to intensify a war on any form of corruption, calling on students to be agents of change in and outside the institution. Addressing seminar participants on the effects of corruption at UDOM main campus at the weekend, Associate Professor and Dean at University, Prof William Mwegoha, urged students to report any form of corruption to the university's management so that legal action could be taken. Speaking on behalf of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Faustine Bee, said in the past cases of corruption were handled  at the level of  principals of the various colleges at Udom, but currently, the VC got a regular report on corruption. “The university has zero-tolerance on any form of corruption. It will take stern measures against the culprits to maintain its good image,” he said. He was speaking during a one-day seminar organised by the University of Dodoma Students' Organisation Against Corruption (Udosoac), brought together Udosoac members and students to be enlightened on the effects of corruption. Prof Mwegoha added that the university's management was ready to work closely with Udosoac to raise awareness on corruption, saying Udosoac served as an ideal instrument in uniting students and management in fighting against corruption. An official from the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Dodoma Office, Mr Zacharia Mwanfumbya, commended Udom students for setting up Udosoac to fight against corruption. “As the anticorruption watchdog, we have been encouraging students to set up anti-corruption clubs to raise awareness on corruption. Such organisations help spread knowledge on the vice." he said. Udosoac Deputy Chairperson Apilo Awe appealed to the management to set up a system which would enable students to give suggestions on corruption at the main campus. He pointed out that some students feared to report cases of corruption to the relevant authorities due to fear of intimidation. He expressed gratitude to the management for supporting Udosoac since its inception in 2010. “One of the main challenges we are facing when dealing with corruption cases is that some of victims are not cooperative with PCCB, thus killing the cases,” he said.