EMPLOYERS participating in the ongoing Nanenane agricultural exhibitions in Simiyu Region have expressed their satisfaction with the newly created Online Registration System by Workers Compensation Fund (ORS WCF Portal). The online system (ORS Portal) simplifies the process of registering employers with the Fund, lodging compensation claims and filing accidents or sickness reports by employers. Director General of the Workers Compensation Fund (WCF), Mr Masha Mshomba, said yesterday in Simiyu Region that there had been a significant turn up of employers at WCF stand at Nyakabindi grounds, seeking to learn on how the Fund could help them in simplifying registration and the lodging of compensation claims. According to Mr Mshomba, most of the employers were eager to know how Online Registration System-WCF Portal (ORS) could help them in simplifying registration with the Fund, including filing compensation claims. “It has been a good day for us, as WCF, to give explanations to our stakeholders, including sensitising them on our operations and services that we offer through online platforms,” he said, adding: “These online portal gives employers an opportunity to register with the Fund, remitting statutory contributions online, issuing reports on workers in case of accidents or sickness and filing compensation claims,” he added. According to Mr Mshomba, about 200 employers visited the WCF stand where they made online registrations, signifying the importance of online platforms in service delivery. President John Magufuli has all along been imploring government institutions to be creative in service delivery by creating online platforms to simplify operations as they reduce costs and increase productivity. Workers Compensation Fund (WCF) is a social security scheme established under the Workers Compensation Act No. 20 of 2008. The Fund is responsible for compensating workers who suffer occupational injuries or contract occupational diseases arising out of and in the course of their employment.