MANY must have heard or involved in an arrangement by which a company or the State undertakes to provide a guarantee of compensation for specified loss, damage, illness, or death in return for payment of a specified premium, something called an Insurance in a nutshell. In this arrangement, Insurance is a contract, represented by a policy, in which an individual or entity receives financial protection or reimbursement against losses from an insurance company. The insurance company pools client’s risks to make payments more affordable for the insured person/entity in this case. Insurance policies are used to hedge against the risk of financial losses, both big and small, that may result from damage to the insured or her property, or from liability for damage or injury caused to a third party. Investment reports show that the Tanzanian insurance sector consists of 30 insurance companies and 112 insurance brokers currently operating in the market. There is no doubt that the insurance sector in the country grows very fast and the need for supervision and regulations of disputes resolution mechanism between Insurance companies and their customers is very high. That being the case, this has midwifed the Insurance Ombudsman Scheme of Tanzania, as a mechanism(s) that put in place to serve the purpose professionally and with ease. Elaborating, Section 122 (1) of The insurance act of 2009, establishes insurance ombudsman service as a body responsible for resolving disputes arising between insurance consumers (these are policyholders, third party claimants, administrators of the deceased’s estates and successors in title or a beneficiaries) and insurance registrants (who are persons registered to conduct insurance business other than brokers and agents in Tanzania). It goes therefore that the insurance ombudsman service works by accepting, admitting and administering viable insurance complaints lodged with them, conduct investigations over the claims, advise complainant(s) and insurance registrants, determine complaints and make awards to successful complaints. The insurance ombudsman service consists of an ombudsman, mediators, arbitrators and supporting personnel. The insurance ombudsman services was for the first time established in Tanzania in September 2014, where the then minister for finance Ms Saada Mkuya Salum appointed Honourable Vicent K.D Lyimo a retired high court judge and the office of ombudsman was officially opened in February 2015. The office of Insurance Ombudsman was first located In the Tanzania Insurance Office on the 4th floor of PPF Towers on the Junction of Ohio and Garden streets in Dar es Salaam before it has been shifted to Jamhuri Street. Here, the Insurance Ombudsman Service is a legal scheme that regulates the insurance business of Tanzania and is provided for in; • Section 122,123,124 and 125 of Part IX of the Insurance Act no 10 of 2009 and • The regulations 1 to 24 of the Insurance Ombudsman Regulation Government Notice no.411 of 2013 made under s.124 (4) and 167 of the insurance Act, 2009. Equally, in its regulation 5(1) and (2) of The Insurance Ombudsman Regulations, Government Notice no 411 of 2013, made under section 124(4) and 167 of the Insurance act, 2009, which paved the way for the appointment of ombudsman. Regulation 10 of The Insurance Ombudsman Regulations Government Notice no 411 of 2013, requires the office of ombudsman while carrying on their duties to follow the general principles of ethics that governs insurance ombudsman service, which are: to act independent and objectively in resolving disputes and not to take instructions from any persons in exercising its powers, to apply informal, fair and cost effective procedures, to take into account interests of disputant, to give a due consideration to the principles of equity and to maintain confidentiality in respect of information about complaint received, otherwise the ombudsman can be removed from office on the reasons of misconduct or failure of discharging duties. Insurance Ombudsman Service has administrative powers to register complaints and determine viability of complaints, however, the insurance Ombudsman has also legal powers to refuse insurance complaints submitted to him if in his view the complaint has no reasonable prospect of success, the complaint is frivolous, vexatious or has been lodged to abused legal process. The complaint can be dealt more appropriately in the court of law or the complainant has not suffered or is not likely to suffer any material inconvenience, distress or financial loss as a result of an action taken by insurance registrant. S.124 (2) and (3) of the insurance act of 2009, gives the insurance ombudsman investigative powers towards complaints lodged with the scheme. These powers include: to require production of documents or information relating to insurance, to institute investigation into the activities of insurer, it is with these powers, the insurance ombudsman can negotiate, mediate and reconcile insurance claims disputes and make decisions thereof, decision of insurance ombudsman can be either to uphold the claim wholly or in part, to dismiss the complaint, to make rulings on procedural or evidentiary nature, to award compensation for financial loss, or to make declaratory orders. Why should Insurance Consumers choose to file their complaints with the Insurance Ombudsman? The Ombudsman Scheme of Tanzania Provides: Immediate resolution of disputes, since the law limits the Insurance Ombudsman Service to resolve insurance disputes brought to them within two months only, it goes therefore that from the date of admission of viable insurance complaint, determination must be done in sixty days, this saves time and efforts of parties to the disputes of attending lengthy court proceedings. Also in Insurance Ombudsman Scheme there are no legalistic formalities and complexities, claimants can simply lodge their claims in writing, electronic or oral as opposed to the court of law where plaintiff drafts technical and complex legal documents such as plaints, affidavits and chamber summons which must be drafted by legal experts and advocates. Lodging complaints with the insurance ombudsman service cost an insurance consumer or a claimant only 25,000/-, the amount that is relatively low and enhances access to justice in insurance industry even to those with limited financial resources, also, the Ombudsman scheme observes confidentiality in resolving their disputes. However one should bear in mind that, there is a limitation on types of disputes of insurance which the insurance ombudsman has jurisdiction to entertain and determine, like claims relating to railway rolling stocks, aircrafts, ships, surety ships and miscellaneous legal expenses. These can not be resolved by the insurance ombudsman but claimants can file cases to courts with appropriate jurisdiction, moreover, the ombudsman can only administer a complaint whose subject matter has a maximum value of 40m/- and can grant award for a direct losses and damages suffered only up to a maximum of 15m/-. This article therefore is a wakeup call to all insurance consumers with disputes against the insurers that ranges not above 40m/- to simply find speedy redress with the Insurance Ombudsman of Tanzania. ●The writer, Yusto Habiye, is the Managing Partner of TanLaw Associates LLP and can be reached via-Email: yhabiye@gmail.com and/or phone + 255 756 217 16 0, +255 762 151 670