SIMBA Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck has categorically pointed out that his current squad is a much better than last season and it will present headache for him to select starting lineup. His comments came shortly after a resounding 6-0 rout of hapless Burundian side Vital’O at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. A high profile friendly match between Simba and Vital’O marked the end of the annual Simba Week celebration, which was graced by Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment) Mussa Azzan Zungu. As usual, when Simba Day arrives, the city of Dar es Salaam goes crazy with lots of celebrations in various corners around the country. The same thing happened on Saturday, as jubilant Simba supporters thronged the venue in their huge numbers to embrace the annual club’s big day which normally falls on August 8th, concurrently with the national farmers’ Day (Nane Nane) holiday. However, this time around the date was altered due to various technical reasons, resulting from delay to end the season due to Covid-19 outbreak. Usually, Simba Day is the day when Simba unveil their squad ahead of the upcoming new season hence providing a wide platform to the team’s supporters countrywide to find out who is still included in the squad and who has been dropped. Newly signed foreign players --Ghanaian Bernard Morrison, Zambian dynamo midfielder, Larry Bwalya, Kenyan defender Joash Onyango, striker Chris Magalu from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) were paraded before the almost fully packed venue.  Also paraded were local new arrivals at the club defenders Ibrahim Ame, David Kameta and striker Charles Ilamfya. Morrison, who crossed from traditional rivals Young Africans, stole the show scoring one and assisting the second goal for skipper, John Bocco. Other goals were netted by virtuoso midfielder, Clatous Chama, Ibrahim Ajib, Mugalu and Ilamfya. “In general, our squad in better than last year …with new signings we have more options and with different systems, which is good for a coach. “However, I think it will be difficult for the technical bench to make a choice. Twenty eight quality players is a big squad…they will oblige me to make a lot of choices. “You know, when you have four top strikers it is always going to be difficult to make choices. You may play with two; one on the bench and the other on the stands. “It will certainly be rotational and everyone has to accept the reality that in some games, they will not be playing. There is also professional mentality that we have to install in the group because now, I see everyone is motivated; everyone wants to play again, showing themselves to the coach,” he said. Vandenbroeck demanded every player to remain focused and committed to the team and he believes that all players will keep their best level until the end of the season. “I will not accept any one who gives up and stop being committed to a team,” he warned. “Simba wants to win everything, last season we won everything and we will try and do the same this season. There is only one way forward, keep working hard because that will make a difference on a higher level." He said winning the league is target number one for them this season because it gives them access into the CAF Champions League. The trainer also insisted that the second target is to perform well in Champions League, saying reaching the group stage of the tournament will be a bonus for the club. “Whatever comes extra after the group stage, will be a big complement for us and if we can take Community Shield and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), we will not say no,” he said. Speaking about the game against Vital’O, Vandenbroeck said the defence of the opponent was much more resistant in the first half than in the second. He also lauded the 20 times Burundi champions for honoring invitation to test Simba, saying it was not easy for teams from across borders to travel during this time of lockdown due to coronavirus. “It was a good opportunity today (Saturday), I think it is very important to connect with fans at the beginning of the season and above all, it was an entertaining day from the beginning to the end for all of us,” said the Belgian trainer. Commenting on the fitness levels of his players, the coach said it was only five days of training, while some players trained for two or three days. “This is why; we chose to play with two different teams in each half. We played two different systems and I’m happy with the performance. “I’m pleased with the energy and efforts the players showed today (Saturday). Technically, most of the guys are good, tactically; we have few things to adopt or modify to get the balance between defence and offensive,” he said. In general, the coach said it was a positive day for his team but said they have to be on their best next Sunday because the Community Shield clash against Namungo at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta Stadium will be much tougher than Vital’O. “We will travel on Friday to Arusha and I hope Erasto (Nyoni) and Kahata (Francis) will be fit to start training on Monday (today). Kagere (Meddie) will also be back to training from Monday. There are only two guys missing, that is Wawa (Pascal) and Luis (Miquissone), who will be back by Wednesday and we will have a full squad to go into the season. “After next five days we will see how the players integrate, how they play and how the move,” said the coach.