YESTERDAY, we brought you the first in a series of three articles of Ambassador Ferdinand Kamuntu Ruhinda’s public tribute to his closest friend of more than 50 years, the Late President William Benjamin Mkapa. This is the second part from the interview with Mzee Ruhinda, journalist, political advisor and strategist, editor and former High Commissioner to Canada and Ambassador to People’s Republic of China. He also served as Deputy Ambassador of Tanzania to Sweden. Ambassador Ferdinand Ruhinda retired from public service, as Tanzania’s Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1993. Back at home, he was asked in 1994, to professionally advise a Dar es Salam based Business Times Newspaper, published along its sister paper, Majira. In other words, Mzee Ruhinda retired at an opportune time, just in time for the intense political activities of 1995, as the country prepared to bid farewell to President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, and elect the third president of the United Republic of Tanzania. This is what he personally says: “In 1995, an unusually high number of candidates came forward to declare their interest to succeed President Mwinyi, and every candidate had his own core group of supporters, right from the start of this political process. On behalf of Benjamin Mkapa, a few of his friends, mostly political and work-related colleagues started preparatory meetings too. I remember there was Hashim Mbita, Walter Bgoya, Saleh Tambwe, Suleiman Hemed as well as Patrick Qorro and Mateo Quaresi and others…” General Hashim Mbita who had then retired as Executive Secretary of the OAU Liberation Committee, Patrick Quorro, former Member of Parliament and Ambassador Hemed have since passed away. Walter Bgoya is the Managing Director of TPH, which has published almost all of Benjamin Mkapa’s publications and remains Tanzania’s leading publishing house. Ambassador Tambwe and Mateo Quaresi, another former Member of Parliament and Regional Commissioner for Mbeya, are now retired public servants. “At the start, our group was a bit disorganised. In the circumstances, Hashim Mbita proposed that our group needed a coordinator and he proposed my name. This is how things evolved and I ended up being Coordinator for the Private Office of Mr Mkapa’s 1995 Presidential Campaign and his Campaign Manager. Mr Mkapa never appointed me to manage his campaign. Circumstances dictated this process.” Mzee Ruhinda who played a similar role for Jakaya Kikwete’s 2005 successful campaign for president explains: “That responsibility was unusually difficult. We did not get much support or even cooperation from CCM headquarters. In my view, for two reasons. First, Mwalimu Nyerere’s active participation in shaping the 2005 CCM presidential primaries had left CCM almost paralysed and directionless. Second, senior influential officials at the head of the Party lost interest in the process after all of their preferred candidates were defeated. So, our campaign found itself almost on its own, and having to shoulder additional responsibilities, including scheduling of Mwalimu Nyerere’s campaign rallies in the regions.” “In my position, as campaign coordinator and later campaign manager, I accompanied Ben on a nation-wide tour seeking sponsorship for his candidacy in the primaries in our attempt to get him nominated by his party as its presidential candidate. We travelled by rail and on road. We went to Lake Zone…to Tabora, Shinyanga, Mwanza and Kagera before that first rounding of voting. Later, my other colleagues accompanied him to other parts of the country to the northern and southern regions.” “At the start, Ben had little political visibility… He was not very popular nationally, and his main base was in the southern part of the country, where he had served as Member of Parliament and where people, especially voters, knew him as well as his political strength. There, he was popular. But had little popularity in other parts of the country.” “His most important attribute and source of political strength, and the base in which he would probably bank on was his ability and power of analysis. He had done proper homework and sampled the country exceedingly well – its challenges, and needs, and possible solutions to those challenges – every zone was thoroughly analyzed.” On possible support for Benjamin Mkapa by Mwalimu Nyerere in the early stages of nomination battle, Ambassador Ruhinda says: “Mwalimu neither supported nor showed any preference for Ben’s candidacy, contrary to what many people seem to perceive and claim. I also know that Ben was not Mwalimu’s preferred candidate for presidency in 1993, at the start of the process. Mwalimu played proper referee, leaving the stage open for competition.” “What Mwalimu did, and said publicly on many occasions, was articulating the most important attributes that the third president of Tanzania needed to have given the circumstances and challenges facing the nation then.” “It was an open secret then that Mwalimu’s preferred candidate for the presidency in 1995 was Salim Ahmed Salim, who was then serving as either Secretary General of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) or as Chairman of the African Commission… For reasons which have never been clear to me, Ambassador Salim hesitated to face the challenge, leaving the field of competition wide open.” ”Because of his visibility issue, Benjamin Mkapa surprised many people, including his competitors, by the high number of votes he received in the nomination process. As mentioned earlier, his main strength was in his unmatched ability to do his homework and analysis of the state of our country. By the time of the CCM National Conference, Mkapa had pulled level, in terms of support, with his two final competitors – Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete and Cleopa David Msuya. They all had equal chances of nomination as the Conference got underway.” He narrates further: “I am sure you all remember that in the first round of voting at the National Conference, Jakaya Kiwete surged ahead, winning more votes than the other two candidates, fully and well supported by a huge youth vote. However, the Central Committee of the Party decided on a second vote, as it was deemed necessary to have a majority, rather than a plurality, winner. Cleopa Msuya then dropped out and a second vote took place between two candidates with a higher number of votes.” “In the second round of voting, Ben won with slightly more votes, but it was obvious that the final two candidates had almost equal support among the Conference delegates. It was, indeed, after CCM had nominated its standard bearer that Mwalimu Nyerere intervened formally in the process, by fully supporting the CCM candidate, Benjamin Mkapa. And the reason for this was that Mwalimu was entirely satisfied with the transparency and the fair conduct of the process of nomination. Ambassador Ruhinda also addresses issues related to the 1995 General Elections, and especially how Ben’s campaign assessed and viewed the strength of its main opponent, Augustine Lyatonga Mrema of NCCR-Mageuzi Party in the General Elections. “The 1995 General Elections were the first competitive elections since the re-introduction of multi-partism in the country following a major policy change in 1992 to allow political competition. Indeed, it was a well contested election. However, as a campaign team, we never were too worried or afraid of Mrema. His approach and strength never scared us. For those of us who knew him well enough, from his days as a minister, he was a bit of a fragile and light-weight competitor. In any case, we had carried out a thorough research and analysis about his strength and weaknesses. We knew him very well.” Adds Mzee Ruhinda: “What is important to underscore here is that our country then, as it is now, needed a serious leader who knew the country and its challenges well, and who knew how the world works. Even, our serious media then repeatedly wrote about this important attribute for our president.” Says Mzee Ruhinda: “In my view, two events totally derailed Mrema. And both were a result of Mwalimu’s intervention in the campaign. First, were Mwalimu’s two speeches at campaign rallies in Kilimanjaro and Mbeya, during which he pointedly articulated attributes of a leader Tanzania needed, a president with ability and willingness to confront the Nations’ major challenges of corruption, tribalism, and strong sentiments of belonging in the Union, Zanzibaris against Tanganyikans.” “To me, these were, and still are, landmark speeches for our country, and they need to be published so that we can continue reading and making reference to them, forever. People should know or even remember what Mwalimu said because some, indeed most of the challenges he articulated then, are still with us today.” “The second event was Mwalimu’s speech at CCM’s major rally at Jangwani, Dar es Salaam, as the parties concluded their campaigns. Without mentioning Mrema by name, Mwalimu seriously derided Mrema politically by saying: “If somebody wants to be lifted and carried shoulder-high, and there are people available to lift and carry him….let them go ahead and do the lifting. I do not want to narrate the rest of Mwalimu’s statement. In general, Mrema, as I mentioned previously, was fragile and light weight. True, he still garnered 27 per cent of the votes, which was a high percentage in the circumstances, but generally he was not considered a serious candidate by many serious people.” Mzee Ruhinda says that the 1995 campaign, as well as the 2005 campaign, which he also managed as Jakaya Kikwete sought to be the Fourth President of Tanzania, brought him even closer to politicians in ways and aspects unheard of before and which enabled him to offer his political advice at close quarters. “I was able to advise on many issues. Indeed, most of my advice was heeded to and acted upon. Others, refused to even accept. One, they refused to accept was their continued habit of referring to CCM as State Party (Chama Tawala). To me, a political party belongs to its members and people. Its reference as State Party simply unnecessarily alienates the Party from its important stakeholders. On this one, I fully accept that I failed to convince them. This reference strongly appeals to them, and I have always failed to find out reasons for that attraction.” Mzee Ruhinda talks about the formation of Mkapa’s first Government in 1995 and especially the decision by the new president to include in his Cabinet his strongest competitor for nomination, Jakaya Kikwete, by appointing him in a senior position of Foreign Minister. “Benjamin Mkapa was, by his thinking, his education, his experience and his philosophy in life, an extraordinary strategist. First, Mkapa knew Jakaya very well, and for a long time, since the days when Jakaya was CCM Party secretary for Masasi District and Ben Mkapa was Member of Parliament from the district. They also served together in the Cabinet under President Mwinyi,”says Mzee Ruhinda adding: “Above all, Kikwete had demonstrated his political strength beyond any doubt in 1995. He had a massive following of an army of young people, and these followers had huge strength. Ben, as a strategist, could not afford to leave him out of his Government. He had to take him into his Cabinet. Other considerations, I do not know.” Why then did Benjamin Mkapa not appoint Ambassador Ruhinda to any Government position after running such a successful campaign? “I never requested for a job, and he never offered me any,” responds Ambassador Ruhinda, with a sly grin. I could have requested for a job and he would not have refused me one. Alternatively, he could have offered me a job and I could not have turned it down. In hindsight, I now believe that not serving in Ben’s administration was probably the best decision we both made as friends in our lives. This enabled us to remain close friends, and even cemented our friendship.” The fact that Ambassador Ruhinda did not serve in his best friend’s administration, probably more than anything else, demonstrates the true characters of true friends, and how deeply sensitive both Benjamin William Mkapa and Ferdinand Kamuntu Ruhinda were to matters related to public service and governance, and the potential conflict of interest, such matters can cause. Senior local writers, Salva Rweyemamu, Saidi Nguba and Tido Mhando contributed to this article. Currently, Mr Rweyemamu and Mr. Nguba, are directors in the Dar-based Pioneer Communications Limited and Mr Mhando is the Managing Director to Azam Media Group. Tomorrow, do not miss the third and last article in the series based on Ambassador Ferdinand Ruhinda public tribute to his friend, the Late President Benjamin William Mkapa.