THE construction of the road section connecting Mwalimu Nyerere Bridge and Kigamboni municipality is set to be completed at the end this month. The revelation was made yesterday by the Minister in the Prime Minister's Office responsible for Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled, Ms Jenista Mhagama, during a tour to inspect the progress of the project. “The construction of the road is progressing well and by the end of this month, because it is crucial for Kigamboni residents, it will be officially handed over,” she noted. On February 11th this  year President John Magufuli issued directives to the ministry and National Social Security Fund (NSSF), to revisit their contract of the project on three road section near the bridge. The project was initially estimated to cost 36bn/-, but Dr Magufuli issued a seven-day ultimatum for the responsible parties to revisit the contract and ordered it  not to use more than 21bn/-. Ms Mhagama said Mwalimu Nyerere bridge project was constructed and ran by NSSF, and has been collecting more than 1bn/- monthly exceeding the 800m/- target. On his part, NSSF Board of Trustees Chairman Ambassador, Ali Idi Siwa said NSSF's responsibility was to ensure that the work was completed on time and with quality, because it was being built with members' funds, hence, it was the responsibility of the Board and Management to ensure it was completed well. “I am grateful for the guidance of the President Magufuli, we will continue to implement his directives for all Tanzanians to get better services,” said Ambassador Siwa. Commenting, NSSF, Director General, Mr Wiliam Erio said the completion of the road would be beneficial to them as well as Kigamboni residents, because transport in the area would be improved to trigger more economic and social opportunities. A resident of Kigamboni, Mr Adiel Kaaya, said the fifth phase government under the leadership of Dr Magufuli, was doing well and that the people of Kigamboni are happy for the road construction. Another resident, Godfrey Kurumwa, said the road was being built with quality and standard in mind, adding that there was no need to persuade anyone to see the work being done. “We are happy that our grievances will finally come to an end, and we are grateful to the government for implementing this crucial project,” he said.