FOOTBALL, especially the top flight, First Division and Women football leagues made a banner comeback after the end of Coronavirus scare, majority others which are dead silent must wake up now. From what we witnessed in the various sports field, the post Covid- 19 scare era has been solely a football affair most dominantly at the moment being the transfer window whose big players are Simba, Young Africans and Azam. At least reportedly vibrant after the resumption of sports activities include the Regional Basketball League (RBA) which rages on at Harbours Club courts, T-20, T-40 and T-54 cricket leagues while netball made a sound comeback in Tanga where the First Division League was staged. Though it didn’t get proper attention, the National Amateur Boxing Championship held at Tanganyika packers Kawe did well in reviving boxing spirit though it was Hassan Mwakinyo who neon-signed boxing beauty after winning International Boxing Federation title after outpointing Congolese Tshibangu Kayembe. It was horrifying to see disgustingly low number of regions that conformed participation in the National Athletics Championship due next month in Dar es Salaam. Many regions failed to meet the deadline including the host Dar es Salaam. In the past the athletics championship was on a relatively high level and the nation took advantage to scout for the most promising athletes for the world class events like Olympics or Club Games. So many people from across the country today pay little attention to the competitions and scarcely go to watch the athletes competing. So the best thing is that the all federations assess what is missing for the games to be loved again as was the case some years ago. The athletes are not as competitive as before but, most importantly, the organisation leaves so much to be desired, and it’s really a pity. Which is why the people managing sports in the country need to go back to the drawing board and find out where things are not going right as they used to ten years ago. In countries where they know what it takes to compete at the highest level, athletes start to be prepared from a very young age and Tanzania must not allow to be left behind. Our athletes are always not ready for the big tournaments because we have not prepared them well enough. If we did, it would help the national teams and we have to have continuity in everything that we do if the country is to be able to survive in this increasingly competitive world.