THE government has issued an Environmental Clearance Certificate to an Indian Company- Purandare Industries (T) Limited allowing them to put up the first ever sugar factory in the country’s capital, Dodoma. The Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment), Mussa Azzan Zungu handed over the certificate to the company’s Managing Director (MD), Satish Purandare at a function held at the ministry’s office in Dodoma. Speaking after presenting the certificate, the minister commended President John Magufuli for allowing the Indian company to invest in the country’s capital, saying: “We commend the Head of State for bringing the sugar factory in Dodoma.” According to Purandare Industries (T) Limited Managing Director, the upcoming sugar factory is expected to benefit hundreds of farmers in the city and environs. He said in the coming two to three months, construction would start, adding that its operations would have the capacity to produce 5,000 tonnes of sugar per year by December 2021. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’, Mr Purandare said the industry will be built at Dabalo Ward in Chamwino District, some 80 kilometres from the city centre, adding: “We expect to enter into a contract with farmers within the area to grow sugarcane for the factory’s raw materials. “I am happy that the government under President John Magufuli has been giving me a lot of collaboration, and this is complemented by the minister’s visit to our plant.” In the discussion, Mr Purandare was optimistic that the investment will play a pivotal role in improving the economic lives of Chamwino District residents. “Despite providing permanent jobs for hundreds of farmers, the plant will also stimulate different socioeconomic activities in the district and the region at large,” he said, adding: “I want to see Tanzanians becoming investors in their nation.’’ According to the company’s Managing Director, Purandare Industries (T) Limited intends to provide technology support and inputs to out grower sugarcane farmers, and also add value to their canes produced. He said that Dabalo sugar which will be produced with high-tech factory and the brand name of ‘Sukari Halisi’, adding: “The new factory comes as good news as it will help to reduce sugar deficit in the country.” This new investment comes just four years since President Magufuli invited more Indian investors to come and set up business premises in the country. His call was made at the State House in Dar es Salaam, when Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the country in July 2016. At a media briefing -back then, Dr Magufuli and the Indian leader agreed to deepen the India-Tanzania ties in business, agriculture, food security, trade, natural gas and other vital sectors. Recently, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, responsible for investment, Angella Kairuki, welcomed the decision by the Indian investor to establish a sugar plant in the area. The kudos by the minister to the Indian Company came after she visited the site, where she received a progress report of its construction from the company’s Managing Director. After her tour, Ms Kairuki said that India still remains one of Tanzania’s leading Trade and Investment Partner.