THE thrust of one of the popular Kiswahili sayings is that it is pointless to draw the attention of a sighted person on things that are prominently visible. That is obvious, the highly impressive achievements recorded by the Fifth Phase government under President John Magufuli’s stewardship being one of the powerful manifestations. Among other factors, these can be kicked into life by the reactions of Tanzanians who return home after a long absence abroad. The same applies to foreigners who had been in the country some years ago, had returned, for, say, making fresh attempts to climb Mount Kilimanjaro. These people note that, the country has undergone some impressive developments and are so glaring that one needn’t require the services of other people to literally open their eyes to see. Tanzania indeed become the recipient of praises from even some previous rabid critics of our country, who, unable to pursue the idiotic ostrich trick of burying their heads in the sand under the impression that they aren’t being seen, are acknowledging that Tanzania is truly on the right course. There are exceptions, by way of rabid critics, including some Tanzanians who have literally cast their patriotic obligations to the winds and turned rubbishing the government into a hobby. Particularly disgusting are some politicians in political opposition ranks, for whom, commending the government on even glaring achievements is perceived to be a sin! But these can’t derail patriots from playing their part in supporting the government in forging ahead. At a media briefing session in Dodoma on Friday, the Chief Government Spokesperson, Dar Hassan Abbasi, cited some of the achievements of the Fifth Phase government, which are highly praiseworthy. They include the attainment of lower middle-income status five years ahead of schedule, annual adjusted Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rising by 76.5 per cent during the last four years, per capita growth rising from 622 dollars in 2015 to 1063 dollars now, and the drop in the inflation rate from 9.2 per cent in 2015 to 4.3 per cent. Plus, the 6.9 per cent economic growth rate from 2016 to 2019 is the highest ever recorded. Tremendous headway has been recorded, too, in sectors that include mining, infrastructure, education and electricity supply. Against that backdrop, where the hearts of wananchi lie is easy to guess!