THE Nanenane Exhibition 2020 held recently at Nyakabindi grounds in Simiyu Region has linked Community Conservation Bank (Cocoba) groups from Serengeti to a honey market network. “We supported the Cocoba groups to participate in this year’s Nanenane Exhibition in Simiyu to link them to markets for their products,” Mr Masegeri Rurai Tumbuya from Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS) Serengeti Office told ‘Daily News’ early this week. Mr Tumbuya, who is Serengeti Ecosystem Management Project leader, said the number of Cocoba groups in the entire Serengeti ecosystem had increased sharply to 95 with over 2,400 beneficiaries in recent years. “We are happy that members of the Cocoba groups have taken advantage of the Nanenane event and visitors to our pavilion were able to witness entrepreneurship activities that are environmentally-friendly like beekeeping,” Mr Tumbuya said. Cocoba is transforming the lives of local communities living around the Serengeti ecosystem as well as supporting the anti-poaching campaign, thanks to FZS for establishing the initiative 10 years ago. The initiative has also seen residents, who previously were notorious poachers, becoming champions of wildlife conservation in the Serengeti ecosystem. “The number of Cocoba groups has risen from 10 to 95 and all groups have over 1.2bn/- shares. About 58 per cent of Cocoba beneficiaries are women with the percentage of men standing at 42,” Mr Tumbuya said. FZS conservation officer at Serengeti Office Abubakari Munna said Cocoba groups had benefited from various training in capacity building, among other things, which had showed positive results. “The initiative,” he said “is expected to empower local communities living around the Serengeti ecosystem economically and help them engage in productive activities and deter poaching.” With its headquarters in Germany, FZS is an international organisation that supports conservation activities in Tanzania with the Serengeti ecosystem being one of its priority areas. The presence of FZS in Tanzania for more than 50 years now has greatly helped to protect and conserve the Serengeti ecosystem.