IN the wake of the death of three children dying after eating wild peas, authorities in Katavi Region have sent samples of the children to the Chief Government Chemist for laboratory investigation. Katavi Regional Referral Hospital head, Dr Yusta Tzeba, confirmed over the weekend that the samples had been taken to Chief Government Chemist to ascertain the type of poison that had caused the children’s deaths. The children died after eating wild peas believed to be poisonous which they had picked from a bush. They had cooked the peas and ate them alongside sweet potatoes. According to police reports the food was eaten by six children but three of them died while the three others are undergoing treatment at Katavi Referral Hospital and are reportedly stabilising. The children who died were identified as Kabula Yohana (6), Modesta Makoye (4) and Ezekiel Yohana (3) who were residents of Igongwe Village in Mpanda District, Katavi Region. Dr Tzeba told the ‘Sunday News’ over phone that the samples were sent to the Chief Government Chemist on Thursday morning. “Results may take between two to three months depending on the type of the samples we have sent as well as the distance from here,” she added. She further explained that the bodies of the children have been handed over to their relatives for burial. Speaking at a media briefing session, the Katavi Regional Police Commander, (RPC) Mr Benjamin Kuzaga, confirmed that the incident occurred on August 16 at around 6:30pm in Igongwe village, Sitalike Ward in Mpanda District. According to the RPC, the trio died at different times at two separate health facilities. The RPC further said that on the fateful afternoon, the deceased accompanied by three other children from the same family Yona Sabuni(4), Christina Yohana (4) and Paulo Yohana (6) went to harvest wild peas from the bush. “After picking up the peas, they returned home, prepared them and cooked them alongside sweet potatoes, and ate the food. Shortly afterwards, they felt severe stomachaches. Their parents Yohana Elias and Agnes Lucas were absent, “ added the RPC, who further remarked: “At around 6:30 pm their neighbour Amos Antony spotted the six children sprawling on the floor complaining for severe stomach pains; he rushed them to the nearby health facility where Kabula and Ezekiel were pronounced dead while undergoing treatment, and the rest were then rushed to the regional referral facility for treatment.” The RPC further explained that the third child, Modesta Makoye died at around 9:00 pm while undergoing treatment at the referral hospital and other children - Yoha Sabuni and Christina Yohana - are still receiving treatment at the regional referral facility.