RESEARCHERS have said for research findings to make a positive contribution to the sector of agriculture, the agricultural policy must address challenges facing farmers in the country. According to the researchers, who met in Arusha at the weekend, the agricultural policy also must contribute to the improvement of people’s livelihoods, poverty eradication and economic growth. Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) Director General (DG), Dr Geoffrey Mkamilo, said this during the annual agricultural research forum and seed stakeholders’ meeting held at Mouth Hotel in Arusha Region on Wednesday. According to him, the agricultural policy revolves around the goals of developing an efficient, competitive and profitable agricultural industry, saying the policy is very important in the improvement of research activities for the development of the agricultural sector in the country. “We are looking on how to improve our research activities that will reach and benefit farmers in the country. To meet our target, the agricultural policy should be improved to transform smallholder farmers into commercial farmers,” Dr Mkamilo said. Under the theme ‘promoting public and private partnership transforming smallholder farmers into commercial farmers’, the annual meeting brought together over 200 participants from various private and public seed companies, farmers, agricultural stakeholders, researchers, development partners, among other agribusiness stakeholders in the value chain. Speaking at the annual meeting, Arusha District Commissioner (DC) Kenan Kihongosi said seeds and inputs produced by researchers should reach farmers on time to boost their production. “I call on researchers to ensure agricultural inputs reach farmers. I also ask you (researchers) to produce technologies and seeds that are adaptable to climate change,” DC said. The DC congratulated efforts made by researchers and other agricultural stakeholders to improve the sector of agriculture that contributed to the growth of the country’s economy. TARI Selian Centre Director, Dr Joseph Ndunguru, said for research to make an impact, research technologies and outputs should reach end users using innovation platforms and must assess socio-dynamics of farmers. According to him, successful research depends on dedication and commitment, self-motivation, high level of cooperation, hardworking, high level of transparency and effective communication.