CIVIC United Front (CUF) leader Prof Ibrahim Lipumba has lashed out at Chadema presidential aspirant Tundu Lissu for his decision to raise an objection against his candidature. Addressing reporters in Dar es Salaam, Prof Lipumba, who appeared to have been angered by Lissu’s move, said Chadema’s resolve to fight for democracy in the country was highly questionable. The economist-turned politician asked Mr Lissu and his part to stick to major issues towards the General Election instead of embracing trivial things that add nothing, but instead create fear and conflicts. Prof Lipumba spoke in Dar es Salaam, a day after the National Electoral Commission (NEC) threw away Lissu’s objection in Dodoma for lack of merits. On Wednesday this week, Mr Lissu, who is CHADEMA’s flag-bearer for the Union presidential election submitted his objection against CCM’s Dr John Magufuli and Prof Lipumba. In his objections, Mr Lissu claimed that Prof Lipumba didn’t return nomination forms as per the Commission’s regulations and that Dr Magufuli didn’t attach photos on his nomination forms. Delivering the ruling, NEC’s Director of Elections, Dr Wilson Mahera, said that basing on the evidence submitted to the Commission, Lissu’s claims were baseless. At a press conference Prof Lipumba wondered: “As we are now thinking of pertinent issues to carry to the General Election, Mr Lissu is busy submitting objections... this is clear that CHADEMA fears me because they know that I am a heavy weight politician.” Prof Lipumba said that while the main agenda of opposition parties was always to push for democracy and create an environment where anyone is free to contest in the elections, Chadema appears to be backpedaling in that aspect. “I am wondering why CHADEMA has turned out to be a hindrance to democracy. This clearly indicates that CHADEMA has no good intention for the growth of democracy,” he wondered. Prof Lipumba said Lissu’s move has created fear among his party members, some of whom called him to find out what happened. Having thrown away the objection, incumbent President Magufuli will now be seeking to defend the seat against fourteen opposition candidates, including Lissu of the main opposition Chadema and former foreign affairs cabinet minister Bernard Membe of ACT-Wazalendo. When President Magufuli will be inaugurating his campaigns today, he will likely take voters through the achievements he recorded during the past five years and ask for more time to complete his projects. Other seasoned politicians cleared by NEC to vie for the post of president include CUF’s Prof Ibrahim Lipumba, John Shibuda (Ada-Tadea) and Chaumma’s Hashim Rungwe.