THE Ministry of Agriculture has launched agrometeorological training of trainers’ manual and guide for extension officers, the initiative that will help farmers interpret well weather information. Agrometeorology is the study of weather and the use of weather and climate information to increase crop yield. On the one hand, it mainly involves the interaction of meteorological and hydrological factors and on the other, agriculture, which encompasses horticulture, animal husbandry and forestry. The manual aims at assisting extension officers, farmers and intermediaries, including agricultural, fisheries and livestock extension officers to have a better understanding of the use of climate services provided by the Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA) tailored for agrometeorological applications in the country. Acting Head of Environment Management Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture Prosper Makundi said it was envisioned that proper use of the manual alongside existing climate-smart agriculture-related documents would enhance the capacity of extension officers and farmers in minimising impacts of climate variability. “Most farmers fail to translate weather information provided by TMA. For instance, when they say rain will be above normal or below average it has a certain meaning that cannot be easily understood,” he said. Mr Makundi further said the guide had come after discovering that one of the challenges facing farmers was the interpretation of weather information as even the extension officers were failing to help farmers. He explained that presently there were several initiatives that responded to challenges and opportunities brought about by climate change and variability in the country. According to him, the plans include the National Programme of Action (NAPA) -2007, National Climate Change Strategy (2012), National Agriculture Climate Resilience Plan (2014-2019), National Climate-Smart Agriculture Programme (2015-2025) and Climate-Smart Agriculture Guidelines (2017). He said plans were underway to update the environmental action plan for the 2012-2017 where they still saw there were challenges that had not been addressed. The ministry plans to prepare a 10-year action plan. The official said in 2017 they had introduced the Climate Smart Agriculture Guidelines and incorporate it in council plans countrywide. “So far, its implementation has been good. We have reached 105 out of 185 councils to raise public awareness on the guidelines. In each council we have trained five officers who deal with planning, agriculture, environment, livestock and extension officers, but now we see that there is a need to increase the number of other people from the Livestock Department,” he explained. He said in the implementation of the guidelines councils should outline their priority areas.