THE Solicitor General, Mr Gabriel Malata, yesterday warned private lawyers who are showing disrespect and issuing sarcastic remarks against the Judiciary of Tanzania after losing cases. Mr Malata expressed his concern over sardonic statements given by some members of the bar towards the Court of Appeal, after nullifying the judgment of the High Court that declared unconstitutional the provision under Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), which denies bail persons facing capital offences. “Let us cultivate the habit of respecting court decisions rather than mocking courts after losing cases. This is a decision which has been issued by the highest court of the land and temple of justice in the country. It must be respected,” he stressed. According to him, there are several available steps that are provided under the law on which a losing/aggrieved party could take if he or she is aggrieved by a decision given by a certain court. Mr Malata pointed out that it was unethical and against professional ethics to attack the court through social media platforms. He was referring to a reaction given by one member of the bar who went on the social media to condemn the court on what he termed as failure to protect principles of the Constitution when determining the appeal lodged by the Attorney General against the High Court judgment. “I have decided to use this forum just to remind them that, as lawyers, they are required to observe their professional ethics. In spite of all these, we are still on oaths and we have to observe the oaths. That is why you cannot find a State lawyer publicly attacking the judiciary after being defeated,” noted Mr Malata. The solicitor general also took the opportunity to appeal to wananchi to respect court decisions and follow the Constitution and other laws of the land to avoid facing legal actions, pointing out that every person has the duty of protecting not only his or her own rights but also the rights of others. “Y ou cannot kill a person and then you rush to court purporting to protect your right to life as enshrined in the Constitution. This is impossible. Y ou will be dealt with by the same law, which also protects the rights of others,” stated Mr Malata. In its judgment that was highly awaited, Justices Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika, Jacobs Mwambegele, Mwanaisha Kwariko and Ignas Kitusi, allowed the appeal lodged by the Attorney General, who was the appellant in the matter, against the High Court’s decision. They quashed the High Court judgment delivered on May 18, 2020 by a panel composed of Dr B enhajj Masoud, Seif Kulita and Dr Juliana Masabo, ruling that Section 148 (5) of the CPA is served with Article 3 0 (2) of the Constitution of the U nited Republic of Tanzania, hence it is constitutional. Section 148 (5) restricts bail on persons charged with murder, treason, terrorism, armed robbery, narcotic drugs and money laundering offences. After having declared the section as going against the mother law of the land, the judges of the High Court acted under Article 3 0(5 ) of the Constitution and granted 18 months to the AG to rectify the defect, failure of which shall render the entire section to automatically be expunged. The 18 months, they said, will not be applicable under Section 14 8 (5) (i) in respect of armed robbery offence, as the government had been granted time in the case of Mjomba Mjomba to rectify a similar defect. However, according to the judges, nothing has been done to date. They ruled, therefore, that the said offence of armed robbery is automatically expunged from the list of the unbailable offences in the CPA as of May 18, 2020, when the judges delivered the highly awaited judgment.