THE Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation will tomorrow hold a crisis meeting to ascertain Kenya’s decision of omitting Tanzania from the list of countries allowed to resume international flights into Kenya, a move which came to effect at the weekend. Tanzania’s Works, Transport and Communication Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe revealed this through a Video clip which went viral for the better part of yesterday. In the clip, which shows the minister being interviewed by a local radio station, Eng Kamwelwe is quoted as saying that the Foreign Affairs docket had organised the meeting with a view of establishing the reasons behind Kenya’s decision which has seen the two neighbours locked in a diplomatic tussle. “We would still continue doing market intelligence to find out if there’s more to just the exclusion and I urge you the Media to do the same in supporting us,” he explained. The minister hinted that Kenya’s infamous decision could have something to do with the Great Serengeti wildebeest migration where the gnus cross the Mara River in Maasai Mara Game Reserve in Kenya.But in a quick rejoinder, Kenyan Transport Cabinet Secretary Mr James Macharia clarified the omission saying Tanzanians landing in Kenya will have to be subjected to quarantines and isolations compared to Ugandans and Rwandans. “The move doesn’t mean that we’ve stopped airlines flying from Tanzania to land in Kenya,” he said. Mr Macharia admitted to have seen Tanzania’s reciprocating in kind, but he said his government will engage its neighbour in resolving the dispute amicably. The two EAC countries have since been locked in the tussle after Kenya announced that passengers from Tanzania would not be allowed to enter Kenya. What followed was Tanzania’s decision to ban Kenya's national carrier (KQ) from flying into the country, the latest move in a deepening row between the two neighbouring countries. The Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) said Kenya Airways flights were being banned "on a reciprocal basis" after the Kenyan government decided against including Tanzania in a list of countries whose passengers would be allowed to enter Kenya when commercial flights resumed on Saturday following the lifting of coronavirus restrictions. The East African Business Council (EABC) has since rooted for a regional coordinated approach on the resumption of air services to spur intra-EAC trade and revive the tourism and hospitality sector heavily hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.