TANZANIA Education Network (TenMet) in collaboration with several education stakeholders have set to raise 145m/- that would construct Kwamtoro Secondary School students’ hostels at Chemba District, Dodoma region. The hostels will accommodate children of pastoralists and hunters (Hazdabe society) found in the district. TenMet National Coordinator, Mr Ochola Wayoga, said the construction of the hostels was part of the national commemoration of international Global Action Week on Education (GAWE) that would run from August 17th to 21st this year at the district. He noted that by supporting the construction of the building, it will enhance many students to have a friendly learning environment and study with ease. Mr Wayoga made the remarks yesterday while briefing journalists, adding that Chemba, being a new district established in 2013 was still in dire need of quality learning infrastructures. “We have decided to show the way and we call upon other stakeholders to join us in the district’s efforts in building students’ hostels. This will help provide protection to our children and improve their learning environment,” he said. The TenMet National Coordinator further said this year's celebrations were aimed at raising awareness in the community on their right to education, as well increasing their awareness on shared responsibility for education. He said, TenMet intends to help the government’s efforts in improving schools’ infrastructures, provision of training materials, teachers’ training and putting in place special teachers for children in need. This celebration was to be celebrated in April, this year but was postponed due to world Covid-19 outbreak. The event focusing on actions to reach Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 4) in 2030 ran with the theme- 'Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.’ Global Action Week for Education (GAWE) is an international annual campaign led by the Global Campaign for Education with support from UNESCO that strives to raise awareness on the importance of education for achieving sustainability and the commitments made by all to reach the global education goal by 2030. TenMet is a national network of non-state actors in education, whose core objective is to work and link with other actors in education and influence policies and practices on basic education for all Tanzanians.