THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has reminded journalists on the need to abide by the principles and ethics of the journalism profession when discharging their responsibilities. The call was made during a special training session conducted by PCCB for Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) reporters on corrupt practices during the election season. The session was led by two PCCB officials from Temeke Municipality - Senior Officer Investigator-Community Education, Ms Esther Mkokota and the Investigator and Public Prosecutor at PCCB, Ms Stella Mafuru. They both urged journalists to co-operate with PCCB in identifying people or groups with intentions to engage in corruption, saying doing so would keep the nation safe, and creating an environment for free and fair elections. “It is important for journalists to work with us to ensure that these elections are free and fair. If we do not work together to unmask these people, there is a risk of citizens’ rights being compromised,” Ms Mkokota said. She said some evil candidates may end up buying voters, or their fellow contestants to win the elections, a malpractice which is dangerous for the nation. She added: “They will not only buy voters but might also corrupt the process of counting votes and even result announcements.” She said corruption was dangerous for the country as it could propel corrupt politicians to acquire leadership positions with no aspirations to diligently serve the public. She said corrupt politicians were driven by self-interests when contesting during elections, adding that it was the role of the media to unmask and report such people to relevant authorities so that measures can be instituted against them. Ms Mkokota reminded journalists to desist from receiving favours from politicians as the practice would compromise their coverage. “As you expose corrupt candidates, you, as reporters, should not involve yourself in accepting bribes,” she cautioned, adding: “During this period, journalists should be more careful. They should make sure that they offer equal opportunity to all contestants in their coverage so that citizens can make the right judgement,” said Ms Mafuru, adding: “You should not give few contestants more coverage than others or completely ignore some in your reportage. In general, you should avoid bias.” Meanwhile, Ms Mkokota said journalists accused of receiving bribes or favours should not be afraid to be investigated as investigation was a step to proving whether someone committed the offence or not.