THE government has announced that it has curtailed importation of power insulators because the products are made locally in large quantities. The government decision was announced by the Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani after inaugurating the Polymeric Insulator Factory which produces electricity accessories, including insulators that link power cables to poles. “The idea behind making these electricity accessories locally is to reduce importation. It is for this reason that I am announcing the government’s decision to limit importation of these products because we want to protect local industries that have been started to promote the national industrialization agenda. We have enforced these controls since 2017 to support our government led by President John Magufuli,” the minister explained. He said the government supports the company because production of the products locally enhanced the industrialization agenda and would create employment for young people and increase the gross domestic product (GDP), adding that the products had a huge local market. He called on the main consumers, Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), Rural Electrification Agency (REA) to join the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) to ensure factories produce quality products that would remain competitive on the free market and protect consumers from buying substandard products. Strategic Consultant of the two sister companies Inhemeter and Polymeric Insulator, Dr Adelhelm Meru, said industrialization was important at this juncture because Tanzania has become a middle-income nation that needed a strong economy, further explaining that companies producing import substitution should be supported by the government and local consumers to achieve that goal and enhance creation of jobs and growth of the national economy. He called on local importers to urge foreign companies to establish companies in Tanzania. Polymeric Insulator Company Managing Director, Mr Abraham Rajakili, thanked the government for remaining true to its word, explaining that their company had enjoyed state support all the time. “We have received great support from the government all this time. If this kind of support will continue, we will be able to do big things relating to jobs, technology and producing quality products,” he said.