WORLD Vision Tanzania (WVT) has spent 8.4bn/- on the implementation of various development projects in five wards of Iramba District Council, Singida Region, between October 2003 and this year. Projects implemented during the period under review included education, health and nutrition, water and sanitation, household livelihoods and resilience, child safety and protection in Kidaru, Tulya, Kisiriri, New Kiomboi and Old Kiomboi wards. Speaking during the phasing out of the project ceremony on behalf of WVT Director General Neseriani Mollel said during the 17 years of its implementation, Kisiriri ADP had transformed the lives of 37,600 people out of who 4,800 were sponsored children, some of them living in vulnerable conditions. "These projects aim at solving socioeconomic challenges to ensure the welfare of the children and the improvement of their present and future lives. WVT believes changes taking place will last for a long time, support children and their families now and for many years to come," she said. However, she pointed out that socioeconomic transformation was largely due to cooperation between the government and WVT. "At all times the government has been a great help to us by providing us with guidelines and policies that have enabled us to provide services to the community smoothly. As we wind up this project, we would like to say that we are grateful to the government and the community in general," she said. Singida Regional Commissioner, Dr Rehema Nchimbi, called on the Kisiriri community to take care and develop all projects implemented by WVT even after the project had closed business to appreciate efforts made and be a better role model to others. "You have been with us for 17 years. That is enough. Go and spread this good news to others so that they too can enjoy the fruits," she said as she allowed the donors to leave, saying if they continued staying around, people in the area would never be able to become independent. To the worrying pupils sponsored by the project, Dr Nchimbi pleaded with them not to get troubled at all since the government was ready to take care of them.