EIGHT passengers died and several others sustained injuries when a bus owned by Sabuni Express Company plying between Kamachumu, Muleba and Mwanza swayed and overturned, the Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC), Revocatus Malimi, has said. According to the RPC six passengers died on the spot while two others died while being rushed to the nearby Ndolage hospital for treatment. He named the deceased as Justus Ruhoya (40), Philbert Katabazi Nyerere (62) and Coretha Adolf (42), residents of Nshamba village. Others are Paschazia Pastory (48) a resident of Kishanda village, Vestina Colnery (30) a resident of Buganguzi village and a one-month old baby girl. Two other bodies ( both females) were yet to be identified, he said. He explained that the accident occurred at Rutenge village in Buganguzi Ward at around 6am on Friday, involving the ill-fated bus with registration number T 392 AZB. According to the RPC, five passengers died on the spot while two others died while being rushed to the nearby Ndolage hospital for treatment. He explained that 22 passengers were admitted to Ndolage hospital and were in stable condition while four others were admitted to Rubya Designated Hospital (DDH) in critical condition. He said the cause of the accident had not been established, adding that initial investigations revealed that speeding could be the cause of the accident on the spot that features a steep hill and a sharp corner. However, Mr Malimi was quick to add that the bus normally plies between Kamachumu and Mwanza and police were investigating how the driver had diverted to Nshamba, 20 kilometres from Kamachumu. “Obviously the driver, who has gone into hiding, failed to control the vehicle and overturned. We are looking for him. The seven bodies of the dead are being preserved at Rubya DDH. “More details, including the names of the dead and those injured and admitted to Rubya hospital will be released later,” he said. Muleba District Commissioner (DC) Engineer Richard Ruyango, thanked people who arrived at the scene of the accident soon and rescued passengers who were trapped in the bus.