THE Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal lodged by Nigerian, Livinus Uzo Chime Ajana, who was sentenced to 32 years imprisonment and to pay 96,564,000/- as fine for trafficking in 54 pellets of dangerous narcotic drugs. Justices Sivangilwa Mwangesi, Jacobs Mwambegele and Mary Levira ruled against Ajana, the appellant, after holding that all grounds of appeal he had presented to fault the findings of the High Court lacked merits. They, however, reversed the decision of the High Court, ordering the appellant to start serving the jail term from, when he was detained because by then, it had not yet been proven that he was guilty of the charged offence. “That said, the appeal stands dismissed in its entirety save for the running of the sentence, which we order to commence from the date when the appellant was convicted of the charged offence,” the justices declared. During hearing of the appeal, Advocate Jeremia Mtobesya, for the appellant, had complained, among others, on the admission of 38 pellets of the narcotic drugs as well as the other 16 excreted by his client, all of which were admitted as exhibit and the reliability of the testimonies of prosecution witnesses. Mr Mtobesya had asked the Court to doubt the evidential value of the 38 pellets allegedly retrieved from his client’s bag, as there was no search order or seizure note tendered in evidence to establish that they were indeed recovered from him in compliance with section 38 of the Criminal Procedure Act. He also contended that the pairs of socks and shoes, in which they were alleged to have been wrapped during recovery, were not tendered in evidence. In their judgment, however, the justices side with the prosecution that the need for search order or seizure certificate did not arise due to its urgency. According to them, there was ample evidence which was tendered to establish that the need to search the appellant arose as an emergence incident after the appellant had been suspected, while people were in their ordinary course of business. With regard to argument that the pairs of socks and shoes in which the pellets had been wrapped were not tendered in evidence, the justices also agreed with Senior State Attorney Veronica Matikila, for prosecution, that their presence would have added nothing to the value of the evidence. They noted that such evidence was obtained from the direct oral testimonies of prosecution witnesses of some of them, as officers from the police, airport and Tanzania Revenue Authority, who eye-witnessed the recovery of the narcotic drugs the subject of the charge, from the bag of the appellant. It was further submitted by appellant counsel that prosecution witnesses failed to identify the 16 pellets which were said to have been excreted by the appellant while under observation at the airport. The justices observed some evidence in establishing the chain of custody, which established that after the seizure of the 38 pellets which were retrieved from the appellant's bag at the airport; they were put into the custody before being handed to be recorded in a register. The pellets were labeled before preserving them in the exhibit room in which access could only be gained in her presence and the in-charge of the Anti-Drugs Unit (ADU), who kept the keys of the second door leading inside the room. With regard to the pellets which were excreted by the appellant while under observation at JNIA, the justices pointed out that such drugs were put into the custody of a detective police officer, who in turn handed them over to his boss in two phases, one on March 5, 2011 and the other on March 6, 2011. Thereafter, one of senior police officers, accompanied with an Assistant Inspector sent the pellets to the Chief Government Chemist, who after analyzing them, returned them to that police officer who kept them in the exhibit room until when they were tendered as exhibit in Court. “The direct oral testimonies of (witnesses) left us with no shred of doubt that, there was any point in time when the chain of custody in respect of the narcotic drugs under scrutiny got broken. We thus find the assertion by Mr. Mtobesya that the witnesses failed to identify the pellets to lack basis” they ruled. The appellant is a Nigerian and during his arrest, he had visited Tanzania. On March 3, 2011 at around 13:30pm, he was at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) where he appeared at departure lounge screening machine for checking-in with a view of boarding Kenya airways enroute to Nigeria via Kenya. At the same, his bag was suspected by the security officers to contain suspicious substances. Police officers dealing with drugs at the airport were alerted and a search was made to the bag. Therein, 38 pellets of substance suspected to be narcotic drugs were recovered. Being suspected to have swallowed some of the substances, the appellant was put under observation in a special room there at the airport. In the course of his observation, he excreted 16 pellets through the rectum at three intervals.