President John Magufuli has reflected on Tanzania’s one year SADC chairmanship tenure, describing it as very exciting and challenging following the novel Coronavirus outbreak. Dr Magufuli is today scheduled to hand over the regional bloc’s chairmanship to the President of Mozambique, Filipe Nyusi, in a symbolic event through videoconferencing. Today is also SADC Day, when the region commemorates the signing of the SADC Treaty and Declaration on 17th August 1992 in Windhoek, Namibia. In his message to fellow SADC citizens, the outgoing chairperson reflected on an event-filled year of SADC chairmanship, in which member states have had to deal with the massive negative socio-economic impacts caused by the global Covid-19 pandemic. President Magufuli said thanks to combined efforts from member states, the region has been able not only to reduce the impact caused by the infectious disease, but also continued implementing all the programmes and projects. “Over the  past  eight  months,  the  world  has been facing  an  acute  and  unprecedented health and economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,” recalled President Magufuli. “I would like to pay tribute to all SADC Member States for taking appropriate measures to fight this disease. Indeed, thanks to our combined efforts, we have been able not only to reduce the   impact caused by this pandemic,” he added. Dr Magufuli conveyed his deepest condolences to those who have lost loved ones; and wished a speedy recovery to those afflicted by the respiratory disease, which has claimed over 700,000 lives globally. For the past one year, SADC has been operating under a theme; “A Conducive Environment for Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development, increased intra-regional trade, and job creation”. “All Member States have continued to  implement regional programmes  and  projects  in  line  with  the  theme;  and  the  results  have  been outstanding,”  said the SADC Chairperson. Dr Magufuli said SADC states have continued to implement the Regional Indicative  Strategic  Development  Plan  (RISDP),  which comes to an  end  this  year;  2020; with the organisation now  developing  the  new one  for  the  next  30  years, anchored on “the SADC We Want”. “This has shown how committed our region is in fulfilling its integration  agenda,” stated President Magufuli, adding: “In  this  regard,  going  forward,  I  call  upon  all SADC  Member  States to  continue to  work  together not  only  in addressing  the COVID-19  impacts but  also in  preparing  the  post-pandemic  situation  of  our Community.” The outgoing SADC chairman applauded the role played by the region’s founding fathers, noting that the prevailing peace and unity that member states are enjoying now are the results of good foundations that they had laid down during their tenure. He was of the view that over  the  past four  decades, the bloc has recorded  important  milestones in different areas of cooperation:  from peace and security, to infrastructure  development, trade and industry, agriculture and food  security, health, education, gender and youth empowerment. “Indeed, our region is now,  more  than  ever, enjoying unparalleled  peace   and security compared to any other regions on the continent; intra-regional  trade is increasing, extreme poverty is declining, income is rising and the level  of our  international  competitiveness has  been enhanced,” he said. On Monday last week, the chair of the Standing Committee of Senior Officials of SADC who is the Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Ambassador Brig Gen Wilbert Ibuge mentioned the adoption of Kiswahili as among official languages at the bloc as one of the key achievements attained during Tanzania’s chairmanship. Apart from adoption of Kiswahili as the official language of the SADC, the previous one year witnessed preparation of regional guidelines for harmonising and facilitating movement of critical goods and services across the region during Covid-19 pandemic. During its chairpersonship, Tanzania succeeded to improve and eventually recommended for improvement of two drafts-- SADC Development Vision 2050 and Regional Indicative Strategy Development Plan (RISDP) 2020-2030. The two documents are set for consideration to the Council of Ministers at this sitting. “As we hand over chairmanship, we look forward to the next meeting in March 2021 that Mozambique would lead all member states in formalising these two documents,” said the PS. Equally, the SADC Secretariat noted that under the chairpersonship of Tanzania, the bloc has mitigated socio-economic hardships to its citizens that could have been triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. SADC Executive Secretary Dr Stergomena Tax stated that, during the past year, the region not only contained the spread of Covid-19, but also enabled the mitigation of socioeconomic hardships to SADC citizens, while minimizing disruptions to economic activities. She made the statement last week during a meeting  held virtually when Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, Tanzania’s Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, handed over the chairpersonship of the council of ministers to his Mozambican counterpart, Verónica Nataniel Macamo. “The success was the result of, among other measures, development of SADC Guidelines on Movement of Goods and Services across the region during Covid-19, and Standard Operating Procedures," she said. Speaking shortly before handing over the chairpersonship, Prof Kabudi mentioned some notable achievements, including continued trade within the region upon continued transportation of goods and services. “As we hand over the chairpersonship, we are certain that we are going to continue fighting poverty and other challenges brought about by environmental factors or climate change,” he noted.