EATING balanced diet is a way to a healthier body in all aspects mentally, physically and psychologically. Balanced diet promotes a healthy being in all ages but rather often in adolescents whose bodies demand a high amount of nutrients, fats and the like from selected balanced diet foods staff. A good eating habit does not only ensure perfect growth but also helps to prevent non communicable diseases (NCDs). A healthy diet in everyday life especially to the youth is mostly encouraged to maintain healthy weight, improves physical and intellectual performance, optimizing growth and improving skin health. If adolescents lack a balanced diet, they risk their health and put them in risk of contracting pandemic diseases and non-communicable diseases. According to WHO guidance on healthy diets, encourages all people but particularly adolescents, to eat less food that is high in calories, fats, free sugars or salt/sodium, and more fruit, vegetables and dietary fiber, such as whole grains. Some diet-related behaviours are particularly important during adolescence as they should increase intake of essential micronutrients, including iron, calcium and vitamins C, B and D, and fibre. Some food groups are hugely important during adolescence. Fruit and vegetable consumption during childhood is linked to many positive short- and long-term health outcomes, with a well-established decreased risk of NCDs such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity and cancer in adulthood. Food preferences and eating habits established in adolescence tend to be maintained into adulthood, which makes increasing fruit consumption among children and adolescents an important public health issue. Furthermore, adolescents are those between the ages of 10 and 19, which means young people over the age of 19 are not in the group of adolescents according to the World Health Organization (WHO 2007). Adolescents go through a period of rapid physical growth, in line with the increase in nutrient requirements in the body. The nutritional needs and physical growth of adolescents are closely linked. Malnutrition among adolescents can cause delayed puberty reproductive development organs and slow growth. Normally, before the adolescent period the nutritional needs among boys and girls are the same, but after this period there is a huge difference in nutritional demand between them. This is because puberty in girls is accompanied by monthly menstruation which causes girls to have higher nutritional needs than boys. The Nutritionist said for adolescents to meet nutritional needs, they have to eat a complete diet with a combination of foods from all five groups because good nutrition during adolescence prevents non-communicable diseases such as heart disease, cancer. TFNC Senior Nutritional Researcher Officer, Mr Walbert Mgeni said there are some nutritional challenges facing adolescents, if their body lacks nutrients especially energy, protein, vitamins and minerals. He further said Adolescent girls are at greater risk of developing Anaemia along with a lack of vitamins and minerals due to excessive blood loss during menstruation. Mr Mgeni mentioned other challenges such as when Adolescents are going through a period of intense peer pressure, which leads them to adopt risky lifestyles that can lead to health and nutritional problems. “Some of these behaviours include poor eating habits, especially preferring to eat foods high in sugar and fat, these foods contribute to adolescents being overweight and obesity,” he said. Nutritionists added that the economic and social conditions of the family could contribute to the nutritional problems facing adolescents. Moreover, the other challenge faced Adolescents is the temptation to indulge in risky sexual behaviour at a young age. According to surveys, Adolescents face several challenges in pursuit of nutritional improvement habits, these barriers are due to a variety of factors including economic and social conditions including various customs and traditions in the community. Also, lack of infrastructure and enabling environment, education and poor understanding of issues related to adolescent nutrition for various stakeholder groups. The group where we meet adolescents is more likely to schools, and one among those in this group of age is a Form Two student, Moses Mkwabi has asked the government to collaborate with stakeholders to provide education in schools related to good nutrition so that the young people can have a better understanding and avoid various diseases that are caused by malnutrition. Due to the challenges facing adolescents in their development growth there are recommended procedures to improve their nutritional status. The Nutritionist mentioned that Adolescents should focus on a healthy diet that will include a balanced diet from five different foods to provide the body with all the nutrients for health and strength as well as to strengthen the body’s immune system. Mr Mgeni cemented that, “We advise this group to eat a complete diet from the five food groups, reduce the intake of processed foods as well as they should avoid the habit of adding raw salt to food while eating.” He said they should eat nutritious foods including maize flour and wheat and industrial oils, they should also use iodized salt to improve their health. The second procedure is the Adolescents advised to deal with the problem of excess weight and obesity. The problem is directly related to poor eating habits, especially high fat and sugar intake. Among developing countries including Tanzania have begun to witness an increase in adolescents suffering from non-communicable diseases, one of the sources of the problem of these diseases is overweight and obesity and high risky lifestyles including the habit of not exercising. He explained that the increase in body fat affects the immune system and increases the risk of developing non-communicable diseases, especially heart disease, diabetes, cancer and chronic diseases of the respiratory system. “We advise the Adolescent to avoid intake of foods made with sugar, water colour and artificial flavours including soda and artificial juices,” he mentioned. Mr Mgeni further said that they should focus on hygiene and safety of water, food and environment, including washing their hands, eating safe food. Furthermore, adolescent advised to avoid dangerous peer pressures, which are the most dangerous influences that lead many young people to engage in sexual acts and relationships, alcoholism and smoking. “These effects lead to high risky behaviours include an increase in HIV infection, teenage pregnancies and criminal activities, including theft, also contribute to the poor nutrition of adolescents and children born to teenage girls,” he explained. Nutritionists and other stakeholders have advised that in order to create an enabling environment that will help adolescents improve their nutritional status, it is important for a society to require involvement of the various sector stakeholders. This means that interventions to prevent barriers to adolescence from following the recommended behaviours should be implemented by stakeholders in various sectors including parents, guardians, civil society organizations, local government agencies, ministries, government departments and institutions, the media and the private sector.