*With just a few days to go before the 2020/21 football season kicks off, SuperSport is set to deliver all the football worth watching. SUPERSPORT is the home of world’s top leagues in the 2020/21 football season, starting this September on DStv, with an unmatched offering of the beautiful game from the best players in the world, all in HD! As the 2019/20 season draws to a close, interest in the upcoming season is ramping up. If the hype of the previous season - with Liverpool’s momentous triumph - is any indication, the looming season is bound to be captivating.  And with SuperSport’s comprehensive coverage of the most loved football leagues, with hundreds of games from Premier League, La Liga (with exclusive English commentary) and Serie A - on the new dedicated thematic channels - there’s no need to look any further. In addition to the big three leagues, SuperSport will also be bringing viewers unprecedented coverage which includes the Euro 2020 Championship, UEFA Euro 2020 Qualifiers, European qualifiers for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar, the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Nations League   – it’s set to be a year-round football feast! The breadth and depth of the coverage, will, as usual include build-ups with respected analysts as well as language options for commentary including Pidgin, Swahili and Portuguese – cementing SuperSport as the unrivalled football destination of choice for viewers across Africa. MultiChoice Tanzania Head of Marketing Ronald Shelukindo says of the upcoming season: “Building on the euphoria of the season that just concluded, we are excited to deliver world-class football to fans as we always do. There’s a lot to look forward to and we are proud to provide a platform for customers to experience the significant moments of the game at high quality.” Football fans in Tanzania were given a preview of the ‘new normal’ of live football in the last part of the 2019/20 season as a result of the worldwide pandemic, changing the dynamic of how the game is broadcast. Other changes for this season also include team and leadership adjustments: New start dates The dates for the season to begin usually arrive in August, but the suspension and late finish due to world events, means all three of Premier League, La Liga and Serie A  will kick-off their new campaigns in September: the 12th for England and Spain, and the 19th for Italy. All three leagues are scheduled to wrap up on 23 May 2020. New teams In the Premier League, the trio of Leeds United, West Bromwich Albion and Fulham will be the 'new boys' after securing promotion at the end of last season. West Brom and Fulham have been regular competitors in recent Premier League seasons, but the return of Leeds is big news: the Whites are truly one of the biggest clubs in England and a first showing in the top flight since 2003-04 adds to the excitement and intrigue for 2020-21. In Italy, Benevento and Crotone secured direct promotion to Serie A, with both set to appear in the top flight for just the second time in their histories, while La Liga sees Cadiz and Huesca as new members of the elite league, with the former promoted to the top tier for the first time in a decade. New managers The arrival of the legendary Marcelo Bielsa, the man at the helm of Leeds United, adds to the managerial spice in the Premier League, with the Argentine revered as the "coach's coach" by the likes of Pep Guardiola. His tactical nous will be put to the test by the likes of Guardiola, Liverpool's Jurgen Klopp, Carlo Ancelotti and others in a stacked line-up of brilliant managers. Meanwhile, Italy will have the fascinating scenario of rookie manager Andrea Pirlo in charge of Serie A champions Juventus – if the former midfielder is half as good a coach as he was a player, then the Bianconeri will be well on their way to a 10th straight title. In La Liga, as far as new managers are concerned, it's all about who will be in charge of Barcelona. Quique Setien's tenure ended in disgrace with the team's 8-2 annihilation at the hands of Bayern Munich in the UEFA Champions League, and Ronald Koeman (a Barca club legend) has been confirmed to take over at the Camp Nou. New players The transfer market hasn't really clicked into top gear just yet, but there has already been some major signings completed. Chelsea have done amazing work by securing the services of Moroccan winger Hakim Ziyech and German striker Timo Werner, two signings which could transform them into potential Premier League title contenders. The biggest signings into La Liga include Miralem Pjanic to Barcelona (as part of a deal which saw Arthur head in the opposite direction to Juventus) and Suso swapping Milan for Sevilla (and he's already impressed for the club in the UEFA Europa League), while Serie A has seen the arrival of two rising African stars: Achraf Hamiki from Real Madrid to Internazionale, and Victor Osimhen from Lille to Napoli. As we build towards the eagerly-anticipated 2020-21 season – having only just seen the back of 2019-20! – don’t miss everything new coming to the Premier League, La Liga and Serie A which will excite SuperSport viewers for the New Football Season! Get or reconnect to on DStv or GOtv today to enjoy the football programming on your #HomeofFootball. Visit www.dstv.com or www.gotvafrica.com, or download MyDStv or MyGOtv to subscribe or upgrade, and join in on the excitement. DStv viewers, while you’re on the move, you can stream matches on DStv Now. As we enter the Soccer season, SuperSport viewers on DStv will now be able to enjoy special dedicated channels for leagues and sports, among them the Premier League, La Liga, WWE, UFC, tennis, motorsport, golf and several others, which will now have a home to call their own. A list of the newly named SuperSport channels and the content you can find On DStv: SuperSport Blitz remains your home for all the latest breaking news and updates from around the sports world, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. SuperSport Grandstand showcasing all of SuperSport’s live programming with a focus on football and the best live sport across all our channels. SuperSport Football Plus brings viewers the top UEFA Champions League matches, football from across the best football leagues in the world, game highlights, goal summaries, news and magazine shows. SuperSport Premier League will be the home of action from England's Premier League, with the best games, highlights and coverage of EPL. The channel will also broadcast FA Cup and other international action. SuperSport La Liga  is your new home for Spanish football and will focus on La Liga action, the home of El Clasico, and other international football. SuperSport Football will offer selected access to matches from the Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, African football leagues and others. SuperSport Variety 1, 2, 3 and 4 will cover football, WWE, athletics,  marathons, boxing and a range of other events, both African and international. SuperSport Action, your home for combat sports such as MMA – featuring the UFC and EFC – and boxing from around the globe. SuperSport Rugby, the central hub for all rugby. SuperSport Cricket your home for Test matches, One Day Internationals, IPL cricket and everything involving bats and balls. SuperSport Golf, SuperSport Tennis and SuperSport Motorsport respectively, with each channel dedicated to its specific sport. WWE Channel brings you the best of action from the WWE universe.  