EASY access to birth certificates for children under five years has been the government major goal through its Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA) which has initiated the Decentralized Birth Registration System (DBRS) whose aim is to register all children under the stipulated age. In executing this project, the government has worked together with stakeholders and development partners, including the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) which has played a critical role in the exercise. Staff writer DEOGRATIAS KAMAGI interviewed UNICEF’s Child Protection Specialist and the Technical Lead for the DBRS, Mr Bhaskar Mishra. Excerpts:- QUESTION: The Government recently launched the decentralized birth registration system in Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions, could you tell us what this initiative is all about and what has been the coverage so far? ANSWER: The DBRS of RITA addresses the core issues of accessibility (distance) and affordability (cost) for children under five in mainland Tanzania. It aims to set up a decentralized, ‘one-step, one-visit’ registration and certification process for newborns and at the same time, clears the backlog for children aged 1-4 years. Focusing on the under-five cohort helps to report on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 16.9.1. The new system was piloted in Temeke District in Dar es Salaam Region in 2012 and the first launch took place in Mbeya and Songwe regions in 2013 followed by Mwanza region in 2015. Between September 2016 and August 2020, the DBRS was expanded to 15 more regions taking the total number of regions to 18 (out of 26 regions). Overall, more than 5 million children have been registered and issued with birth certificates. On March, this year, the new system was rolled out in Ruvuma region amid Covid-19. Although this required a few strategic shifts in the implementation modality due to Covid guidelines, still more than 92 per cent of children under five could be registered. As you know, the DBRS was rolled out in Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions on August 6 and in less than three weeks more than 400,000 children under five (68.4 per cent) have been registered and issued with a birth certificate. The new system has often been cited as an excellent example of a human-centred approach, and it has proved it is worth even during a pandemic like Covid-19. The overall certification rate for children under five in the 16 DBRS regions is more than 80 per cent in 2020 (against less than 10 per cent in 2012), and the majority of the regions have maintained the certification rates of 90 per cent plus. Efforts are on by the Government to achieve the universal certification rates in all DBRS regions. Q: This sounds like an excellent success. So, in your view, what policy measures made this possible? ANS. Let me briefly talk about the five pillars of the DBRS that helped the things to turn around. Decentralization: Health offices and ward executive offices are declared as registration and certification points. This has brought registration points closer to the community. This has enabled a sharp increase in the number of registration points (7,433 from 97 in the old system) and the number of registration officers (15,568 from 97). And the most critical thing has been the reduction in the average distance 5-6 km from 80-140 km. One-stop process: Registration and certification are done together and in one visit. Learnings from the past were clear and explicit that the certification rates could not be improved unless every registration is converted into certification by default, and we are thankful to the Government for this vision. That way, Tanzania has shown the way to other countries as gone are the days where notification, registration, and certification are done in three different stages. Fee waiver: No fee is charged for the under 5 cohort and the Government realizing the huge backlog for older children went beyond the recommended fee waiver for newborns. Also, the first copy of the certificate is given free of charge to children in target. So far, families have saved close to 8 million US dollars due to fee waiver and another 43 million US dollars as indirect costs as now they don’t have to visit the district registrars’ office at least twice to complete the process. So, decentralization and fee waiver turned out to be game-changing moves so far as the challenges of accessibility and affordability are concerned. Technological innovation: Data is captured in the field using mobile phones and sent through SMS to a central server at RITA headquarters. There is an online dashboard which captures the data in real-time and reflects them at the region, district council, ward, and health facility levels. It provides data disaggregated by sex, age, place of birth, place of registration, characteristics of mothers and fathers, etc. RITA with UNICEF support added an online data validation module in 2017 to validate the data sent through mobile phones with the contents in scanned birth registration forms and make them error-free. This enables subsequent use of data by the BR system and other systems such as National Identification Authority (NIDA), Immigration department, National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), HMIS by following the maxim of ‘collect once and use multiple times’. Public-Private Partnership: The process is owned and led by the Government. The DBRS is fully financed by the Government of Canada - they have provided a total Canada Dollars (CAD$) 30.4 million through three grants with an objective of replicating the new system throughout mainland Tanzania by 2022. It is implemented in partnership with Tigo, a leading mobile service provider. Tigo provides mobile phones, sim cards, SMS and internet services, and advocacy materials free of cost. UNICEF provides technical support to the Government and helps RITA and the Local Government Agencies (LGAs) during the implementation and facilitates partnerships and coordination with other development partners through a DPG CRVS Coordination Group. Q: Could you point out some key strategies that helped the Government to help implement these policy measures? A: There are many, but I would like to mention about six important ones. The biggest innovation has been simplifying the registration and certification processes. Doing away with the formal requirement of notification as part of the BR system and instead, using mother and child health cards as proof of birth as the coverage of these cards is more than 98 per cent. Also, it lays a solid foundation for integration with the health sector. RITA and the Ministry of Health have started working on integrating the DBRS with the Electronic Immunisation Registry (EIR), and this will help both the systems to improve their performance at the common service delivery points. Another masterstroke was integrating birth registration services in the maternity wards and RCH wards; if a baby is born at a health facility and is given a name immediately, the mother goes back with a copy of the birth certificate. Otherwise, she is asked to come with a name to register her baby at six weeks. It was most crucial for making the one-stop system and ensured that the new system performed well during Covid-19. Capturing birth registration data at registration points ensures the availability of data in real-time, and this helps to track the progress from day one of the rollouts, and this goes up to Ward Executive Offices (WEO) and health facilities. I must appreciate and commend the Government being judicious and practical in the use of technology. Given many constraints, RITA uses mobile phones for capturing data from ward offices and health centres. Computers are used at the district level and connected with the backend system at RITA headquarters. The Government has ensured that technology is used to speed up its business process and act as a force multiplier and not the other way round. Now birth certificates have been linked for availing passport, school enrolment, national health insurance, national ID, loans for higher education, and government employment. I am sure the Government will continue to expand it as when the supply-side issues are sorted out throughout mainland Tanzania. The ultimate aim should be to link birth certificates with all essential services. Realizing the importance of vital statistics, RITA has taken a series of steps. The birth and death registration forms have been revised to add necessary statistical fields, and they have started generating statistical tables, and the work for developing a statistical report is on. Q: What provides permanency to the new system and how sustainable it will be when the donor support is not there? A: RITA with the technical assistance of UNICEF developed a concept paper to switch over to a one-stop birth registration system through decentralization and other measures way back in 2010, and this laid the foundation for the DBRS system. Since its piloting in 2012 and through subsequent launches, the system went on getting refined and has reached the present stage. The features of the DBRS were validated through a comprehensive assessment done under APAI-CRVS of UNECA in 2014. There is a national CRVS strategy of the Government that echoes the process of decentralization, including the one-stop process. Pending amendment to the Act, the new system was governed through an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs, the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children and President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government. The amended Act subsumed the MoU and at the same time provides retrospective legal backing to certificates issued prior to the date of the amendment. The Government of Tanzania took some time to amend the Act. And I think that was a well thought out move rather than rushing to it without testing all parameters and understanding their implications. Still, there are a few grey areas left in the Act to fully align it with the best practices, and the Government knows about them and must have a plan to address them. Coming to the sustainability part of the DBRS, the Canada funds is only helping the Government to roll out the new system, get it stabilized and make the system running. After that, the Government has to bear the recurring costs and the best way to ensure that is to integrate the birth registration work with routine work of the LGAs, and RITA, PORALG and the LGAs are working towards it. RITA, on its part, will continue to provide registers and monitoring and supervision support as they are mandated to do so. Even after the funding goes for this initiative, the partnerships with the Government may continue albeit in a different form as birth registration is critical for achieving the SDGs and meeting the legal identity agenda. Q: Why is UNICEF investing in Birth Registration, and what is its role? A: Registering a child’s birth is a critical first step towards safeguarding permanent protection. Therefore, for us, it is one of our non-negotiable mandates. The right to birth registration, a name and nationality is an essential feature on the human rights agenda. This was contained in Principle 3 of the 1959 Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which formed the basis for Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) in 1989. UNICEF bases its birth registration work principally on articles 7 and 8 of the CRC, which give every child the right to be registered at birth, the right to a name and nationality and the preservation of his or her identity. Because of its CRC mandate, governments look to UNICEF to assist them with birth registration. UNICEF’s convening role about birth registration has been well established at the country, regional and global levels, particularly in responding to the Concluding Observations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child on States party reports. UNICEF plays a key role in the reporting process on article 7 since it is recognized as one of the best-informed UN organizations concerning the status of birth registration. There are ten articles of the CRC that may require birth registration for their fulfilment and these relate to our areas of work, for child protection, as well as social protection, health and education. To quote a few, Article 19 (Protection from all forms of violence; Article 24 (Right to health and health services); Article 28 (Right to education). In sum, UNICEF views birth registration as a key system strengthening intervention that contributes to two cross-cutting objectives: Furthering equity: by ensuring legal identity for all children, reaching the most vulnerable in society and removing barriers to health, education and development opportunities, citizenship benefits and participation in governance, and Improving governance: by ensuring all children are counted and thereby strengthening the quality of vital statistics and demographic data to enable governments to improve the planning of interventions for children, including the sectors in which we work. These two aspects are so critical for pursuing the development agenda, especially the SDGs.