THE country’s anti-corruption watchdog- the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) - is facing a shortage of staff to oversee its day-to-day operations. The shortage hampers the bureau from reaching all citizens, especially in rural areas in the run-up to the October general elections. PCCB Director General John Mbungo told the ‘Daily News’ over the phone that they are continuing with the investigations concerning the just concluded nomination process within political parties. He said the bureau received many complaints from citizens and political party members about some candidates engaging in corrupt practices. He said the outcome of the complaints was based on the success of the ongoing investigation whereby despite the staff shortage, some politicians as well as political actors were interrogated and some were booked over alleged involvement in corrupt practices. The director general said the PCCB has only 1,700 employees deployed across the country including district and regional offices, and the figure does not meet demand. He added that efforts are being made to apply for a permit to hire new staff as soon as possible. “The PCCB has a total of 1,700 staff members across the country, some of whom are working at headquarters offices, there’s thus a severe shortage of staff to handle the large number of complaints received daily,” he said. He also said that the PCCB was investigating whether some political parties had put in place mechanisms to detect councillors and parliamentary candidates who had created an environment for facilitating favouritism which led to the emergence of complaints over misuse of funds. He urged the corruption watchdog staff , especially at the regional and district levels, to exercise patriotism and professionalism during the general election season despite manpower shortage. He furthermore urged them to expedite investigations into various cases in their areas of jurisdiction so that justice can be expedited. “As the PCCB continues its efforts and procedures to address staff shortage, we are urging all regional and district commanders to discharge their day-to-day work with a sense of patriotism and professionalism during this general election period to enable the nation to find qualified leaders,” he said. Meanwhile, the PCCB boss has instructed Mara regional commander Alex Kuhanda to arrest the Human resources officer of North Mara mine in Tarime District,Simon Sanga, for questioning for failing to pay the injury benefits of more than 40 former employees of the company.