YOUNG Africans announced that they will unveil their 2020/21 Mainland Premier League season new kit tomorrow morning with jersey number 11 reserved for Angolan midfielder Carlos Fernandes 'Carlinhos'. This was disclosed by the club's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli in the city yesterday while insisting that the new kit is of a high quality and far superior to the one worn last season. "After unveiling them, they will be available in all GSM Malls plus recognised agents who sell Yanga merchandise as such, people should be ready to buy them prior to the climax of the 'SportPesa Wiki ya Mwananchi' on Sunday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam," Bumbuli said. Again, Bumbuli narrated that the big welcome gestures done by Yanga fans towards foreign players is an indicator that they are convinced with the recruitment exercise being done by the team. "Previously, we used to sign players but the level of excitement was not as big as the one we have lately observed. This is also a challenge to the new players for them to work hard to satisfy their fans," he said. He then encouraged Yanga fans to flood Mkapa Stadium on Sunday so as to show the world that they belong to all citizens while promising to have many surprises to them. However, immediately after landing in the country and exposed to a thunderous reception, Carlinhos took time on his official Instagram page to thank Yanga followers. He wrote: "Thank you my God for this opportunity. It will be a new challenge in my career that I will honour with plenty of dedication not forgetting the support from my family and friends. "To Yanga fans, thank you for the warm reception something I will take for life. Thank you all so much." The former G.D Interclube player has already been described by pundits as a talented player but it still remains a puzzle as to whether he will easily adapt the Tanzania league or not. On his part, GSM's Investment Director Hersi Said who are behind all the ongoing signings at the club is confident that the club will stage a remarkable competition next term. He also seized the chance to invite more Yanga supporters to the climax of the 'Wiki ya Mwananchi' event saying they have installed many good things to keep them happy. On the day, aside from parading all squad members prior to next season, a friendly match will be played between the hosts against Aigle Noir from Burundi.