TANZANIA Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) has called sportsmen and women to register for the National and Candidate referee course to be held in the city later next month. Six-day course is set to start from September 28th to October 3rd, this year at Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete (JMK) Youth Park in Dar es Salaam, according to TAVA secretary, Alfred Selengia. Speaking from Moshi yesterday, Selengia told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ that preparation for the course is on a top gear and almost everything is in place. “TAVA through its Referee commission is organizing the national level course, which is open for those who are yet to undergo any refereeing course and wish to join the career. It is also open to those who have already attended candidate referees courses held in 2017 and the National referees courses,” he said. Selengia said that it is a refresher course that is also open for participants from different regions including sports teachers from Primary and Secondary schools. He said that the association does everything possible to ensure its officials are well prepared to serve national and regional level associations. “This is among important courses that will be used to put in place well equipped match officials who will oversee different tournaments,” he said. Selengia stressed that only qualified referees will officiate national level tournaments. “A course like this is only a starting point, we need to produce as many national and international referees as possible,” he said. The secretary added that TAVA is geared up to develop the game and in order to fulfill this they must develop all areas of the game including refereeing. Selengia himself is leaving example as last year he successfully attended the International Coaching Enrichment Certificate as part of the African Coaches Development Programme whose aim is to create a new network of instructors throughout the continent. He also attended an International Coaching Education Programme (ICECP) conducted by University of Delaware in collaboration with United States Olympic and Olympic solidarity. World body FIVB also offered him coaching certificate level III in Lausanne, Switzerland on May 2nd, 2019 during his final module and graduation ceremony.