THAT was a banner Simba Day finale at Benjamin Mkapa and Uhuru Stadiums in Dar es Salaam yesterday when Simba reaped handsomely in the multi-billion worth gala yesterday. The high-valued festival was too rewarding to Simba and their supporters, most notably the display of the squad that rewarded fans a 6- goal thriller in their blitz over Vital’O of Burundi. Bernard Morrison blessed the six-goal festival after netting the opener before skipper John Bocco, Clatous Chama, Ibrahim Ajib, Cris Mugalu and Charles Ilanfya joining him with their spectacular goals. Prior to kick off, the sky was coloured red by the fireworks in the sky, it was indeed colorful and beautiful as Simba and Vital’O (from Burundi) squad stepped in the pitch to grace the day. In a difference of two minutes edging at the break, Bernard Morrison delivered Simba fans a classy football as he scored in the 43rd minute and assisted John Bocco to double in the lead in 45th minute. Among other players who showed a sessional performance apart from Morrison in the first 45 minutes was Larry Bwalya. He did not only make the first goal assist but his skills and accuracy, strength and pace was spectacular; it is indeed reasons why they signed him. The Vodacom Premier League 2019/20 MVP Clatous Chama awarded Simba a third goal in the 57th minute when netted the third from Ibrahim Ajib’s long pass. Chama-Ajib combination was too lethal on the day and it was Ajib this time who  registered the fourth goal from Chama’s assist two minutes later. Simba’s newly-signed  striker Cris Mugalu had a chance to prove to his fans that he is worthy as he netted the fifth goal finishing  wonderfully an outer pass from Miraji Athumani. Charles Ilanfya scored a sixth goal as he finished Mohammed Hussein’s cross in the stoppage time. Besides the brilliant results, the event was coloured with the Rolls Royce Musician from Africa, Diamond Platinumz who landed at Mkapa stadium with a chopper accompanied with club's head of information and communication, Haji Manara. Platinumz in white and gold outfit was indeed a mega star as he sang, danced non-stop together with the club’s Board-Chairman, Mohammed Dewji. Platinumz appearance in Simba Day becomes his first performance in a major sport event in the country, but prior to this performance he has performed twice during the CAF Awards and AFCON 2017 opening ceremony. African Stars Band Twanga Pepeta, Tunda Man, Major Kunta and Mwasiti also performed at the stadium. Right after Platinumz powerful performance it was Manara on the stage, who made an announcement of players who will take part in 2020/21 season which will begin on September 20th this year. Only Pascal Wawa and Luís Jose Miquissone were absent, when he named  Aishi Manula, Beno Kakolanya, Ally Salim, Mohammed Hussein, Gadiel Michael, Kennedy Juma, Erasto Nyoni, Shomari Kapombe, Clatous Chama, Francis Kahata, and Hassan Dilunga as the players for the 2020/21 season. Others were; Ibrahim Ame, Joash Oyango, Jonas Mkude, Larry Bwalya, John Bocco, Said Ndemla, Bernard Morrison, Ibrahim Ajib, Medie Kagere, Francis Kahata, Gerson Fraga, Mzamiru Yasin, David Kameta, Chris Mugalu, Charles Ilanfya, Cyprian Kipenye and Miraji Athumani.