ACCORDING to Section 20 of the Tanzania Investment Act, 1997, a business is regarded as strategic investment if it injects the capital of $20 million (locally owned) and $50 million (foreign-owned) with the potential to create 1,500,000 direct employment opportunities. Special strategic investments or major investment projects are those with at least $300 million investment capital and with the potential to create at least 1,500 direct jobs. Attracting, facilitating and registering major investment projects should be the country’s priority for 2020-2025 if the country is to substantially increase foreign direct investments (FDIs) and achieve the $3,000 per capita income threshold as envisioned by the Vision 2025. Major investments are those of the calibre of Mtwara-based Dangote Cement Industries, which in 2015 started with $500 million capital with the capacity to produce 3 million tonnes of cement. The presence of Dangote in the country greatly helped to substitute imports of cement, bridge the demand gap and stimulate competition that helped to slash prices of cement by a great margin. Such projects are approved by the National Investment Steering Committee (NISC), chaired by the Prime Minister and members include Finance Minister, the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Governor, the Attorney General, the Minister for Industry and Trade, the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development and the Executive Director of the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) (Secretary). The composition of the NISC speaks volume. It is only natural that Tanzanians will trust the team. As such, hopes for achieving the industrialisation agenda through strategic investments in the next five years are not misplaced. Huge investment projects such as that of Dangote are capital-intensive and thus challenging when it comes to luring them into the country, requiring special incentives, but are necessary for long-term economic gains. These strategic industries are also crucial and necessary for Tanzania to bridge the gap of the country’s priority sectors, which are currently under-performing in terms of value addition. For example, despite having about 30 cashew nut processing industries, the country still exports 87 per cent of cashews unprocessed because available factories are too small to bridge the gap. The onus is, therefore, on the government to ensure that at least 50 per cent of cashews are processed locally and exported as kernels by 2025. The country also imports 445bn/- worth of edible oil annually, a commodity that could easily be produced locally, given the availability of arable land, raw materials and other favourable conditions. Furthermore, about 80 per cent of cotton produced in the country is exported in raw form. This situation needs to be addressed through attracting strategic investors who will guarantee sustainable markets for farmers’ produce and create jobs in the cotton and textiles value chain. Likewise, Tanzania imports about 85 per cent of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, draining the country of between $0.8 and 1bn foreign currency annually. Of late, there have been over 15 new pharmaceutical companies interested in investing in the country. But it remains to be seen how soon and to what extent they will be able to bridge the import gap. At this juncture, the country needs at least one industry of the size of Dangote Industries in every sector. In July TIC reported to have registered over 1,300 projects in various sectors (excluding mining and oil and gas sub-sectors), none of which was strategic. To succeed towards that end, it is imperative also to change tactics from traditional to targeted investment promotion, where specific investors would be approached by high ranking Tanzanian authorities. For Tanzania to get strategic investors other issues need to be addressed. One of the issues is the establishment of the much-awaited Land Bank for investors to minimise time taken by investors to invest in Tanzania and reduce costs. The establishment of a land bank has been long overdue. It is being worked on for over 20 years now. It is possible for the dream to become a reality in the next five years, if the country puts its mind to it, to allow for the smooth transition to an industrial economy. It takes between three and five years for a large-scale investor to look for land, convert it from Village land (which is 60 per cent of land) to investment land and eventually obtain a derivative right from TIC. With Land Bank, custodians or owners (the central government, municipal councils and individuals) could bear the cost of surveying, converting land and other costs. These costs will later be reimbursed by the investors. The land bank can be digitalised whereby investors will be able to access the land bank map and choose which site will be suitable for them, depending on areas allocated for certain types of industries. Title deeds/derivative rights, all land transfers and purchasing processes could be digitalised to fast-track processes. Time is money for investors, who are almost always willing to pay any price to save time. Issues such as environmental impact assessment could be done by the government before the arrival of investors. Other investment procedures could be streamlined and digitalised to slash time. Another area of intervention is to package private investment projects that will feed the country’s strategic projects such as the Standard Gauge Railways (SGR) and Nyerere Hydro-Electric Power. As the construction of the two multi-billion-dollar projects continue taking shape, the government should see a need to conduct research, package projects and promote them to prospective investors. The Nyerere Dam Project, which cost Tanzania $3 billion and targets to generate 2,115MW, is crucial for attracting private investors in agriculture, tourism, manufacturing and transport sectors. The project area is good for agriculture because of the availability of a huge water reservoir, which will be great for irrigation schemes. The dam project itself is a tourist attraction and since it is within Julius Nyerere National Park it is guaranteed that tourism activities will increase once the project is complete. Some manufacturing industries may wish to set up their projects a few kilometres from the hydro-electric dam or near transmission lines to utilise the availability of sufficient power. Investment in transport infrastructure and services such as air strips, railways and good roads from Kisaki to the dam/national park area and within the project area will facilitate business and tourism services. Likewise, there is a massive need to identify key areas along the SGR from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza where strategic industries could be located to feed the SGR line. The SGR is expected to cut transport costs by 40 per cent, which is an incentive for more businesses to shift from road to railway haulage, although that will not be enough to guarantee SGR’s profitability overnight. Therefore, it is important for the government to promote and encourage investors to position their projects near the SGR line to utilise the availability of this efficient and affordable transport. I believe these three interventions (attracting big investors, resolving land issues for investors and supporting strategic public projects such as SGR and Nyerere Dam with private investments) will greatly boost the economy. • The author is an investment facilitation expert and communications specialist based in Dar es Salaam.