WITHIN the ins and outs of the preparations for the forthcoming General Election, the papers found space to remind us of some of the ugly goings-on in this world. In a front page news item entitled “Government readying to take back human trafficking victims”, the Custodian (August 12) reported on steps being contemplated by the government to address the fate of unfortunate citizens who are suffering from the vice of modern-day slavery. This was in reference to August 11, the world day against trafficking in persons. The Minister for Home Affairs was reported as saying: “There are individuals who profit from luring young girls from vulnerable upcountry families and offer them to urban households for ‘a free’ as housemaids. No! These girls are not offered “for free”, only to see them: “end up in dreary daily labour while earning little or nothing at all”. They are offered at “a fee”. How the “r” found itself positioned in the word “fee” is anybody’s guess. The article quotes UN agencies which “estimate that thousands of men, women and children end up in the hands of traffickers every year, often through being tricked and ‘mislead’ to believe they are being taken to work that will make their families better off”. The word “mislead” should take its past form i.e. “misled”, and this may require the sentence to be restructured into: “... thousands of men, women and children end up in the hands of traffickers every year, often through being misled and tricked to believe they are being taken to employment that will make their families better off”. On page 2 of the same Custodian, we read about farmers in Buhigwe District, Kigoma Region, who are growing the currently highly prized crop of ginger. Writes the reporter: “Among the farmers, ‘including’ Ezekiel J. (46) resident of Mnzeze Village said the crop had benefitted them greatly, as it is not expensive to grow, and also withstands drought?” The concern here is the writer’s use of both “among” and “including” in the same sentence. You could do without either of them without changing the meaning of the sentence. The writer’s appetite for the use of the word “including”, sometimes distorts the meaning intended, as is the case in the last sentence of the article which reads: “Despite the lack of ‘the’ market, they (farmers) sell the ginger to various areas in the country ‘including’, neighbouring countries of Burundi, Rwanda and Congo “DRC’”. Two issues can be raised on the above sentence. One, if you are selling, then there is a market. It may be small or unreliable, but it is a market nonetheless. On a more serious note, the use of the word “including” means that the neighbouring sovereign states of Burundi, Rwanda and DRC are included in the various areas of the Country (Tanzania). This is untrue and can even raise a diplomatic row! How about replacing “including” with “and”? The sentence would then read: “Despite the lack of a reliable market, the farmers sell the ginger to various areas in the country ‘and’ to the neighbouring countries of Burundi, Rwanda and DRC”. Turning to page 3 we read about the achievements of the government in an article titled: “Majaliwa defends government performance” in which the PM is reported to have said: “The main industrial, agricultural, commercial, mining, tourism and strategic infrastructural sectors, ‘including’ the simplified loans system, have produced adequate employment opportunities ‘to’ Tanzanians”. Again here, the use of the word “including’ is questionable, since the simplified loan system is not a sector by itself. Once again, we can replace this “including” with “and”, for the sentence to read as follows: “The main industrial, agricultural, commercial, mining, tourism and strategic infrastructural sectors, ‘and’ the simplified loans system, have produced adequate employment opportunities ‘for’ Tanzanians”. Incidentally, given the fact that government performance is not being questioned, the article’s title could be changed from “defends” to “highlights” or a word with similar meaning, so as to read: “Majaliwa highlights government performance”. Have an enjoyable weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com