TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) has stepped forward to use sports in boosting domestic tourism by organising open 3x3 basketball games. The newly-introduced Domestic Tourism Promotion Initiative (DTPI) that utilises basketball to promote tourism was officially opened over the weekend in Dar es Salaam. According to TBF President Phares Magesa, speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday after the inauguration of DTPI, the event was conducted in the city with the main focus to spread it into all regions of Tanzania. The whole event, according to the source besides promoting tourism it gives the public awareness about tourist attractions found countrywide. Magesa commended Real PR Solutions, Serengeti Breweries Ltd (SBL), Vodacom and teams that are engaged in battle. “I want to thank everyone who in one way or another made it possible for this to happen. This is just a start, we hope, it will open doors for other sponsors to jump into the bandwagon,” he said. He stressed that they want to ensure they reach the goal and see as many Tanzanians as possible aware of tourist attractions and also become part of it as country blessed with abundance of them. Magesa added that after official opening in Dar es Salaam they now plan to head to other regions for similar exercise. “We are looking for support from companies, institutions and sports well-wishers, we welcome them all to come forward and assist in making the programme successful,” said Magesa. Magesa urged sponsors and well-wishers to also support basketball programmes and Regions Basketball Leagues (RBA) going on countrywide. Other basketball activities that need support include the National Basketball League (NBL) Play-off which brings together top zonal teams to be held next month and the November’s Taifa Cup that draws men and women teams from all over the country. In the line, according to Magesa, is the National Basketball Awards to be staged in December. TBF has a task to prepare the national women’s team that will take in Afrobasket Zone V and Africa Zone V Junior U-18 boys and girls’ tournament.