CATTLE worms are a serious problem particularly to Pemba livestock keepers, with experts blaming the predicament to inappropriate animal husbandry. The just released research finding by Zanzibar Livestock Research Institute (ZALIRI) on cattle worms has attributed the increasing worm infections on dirt cattle sheds, overgrazing and improper de-worming practices. ZALIRI Chief Executive Officer in Pemba Suleiman Hamad Hija, speaking at the just ended third Nanenane exhibitions at Chamanangwe grounds, said the wide worm infections in the districts and Shehias demand special guidelines for farmers and extension officers on how to deal with the worms (scientifically known as Askarids). The chief researcher also proposed special training for farmers to equip them with the right skills against the troublesome worms. He said attempts by farmers to treat their animals against the infections failed due to lack of the appropriate skills. “Some livestock keepers have been trying to control worms in their herds but they use inappropriate doses as per the prevalent worms in their localities,” he said. He said majority farmers were not observing proper worm vaccination programmes, saying: “Some farmers vaccinate their animals subject to their wishes or vaccinate calves only.” During the farming season for paddy and sweet potatoes in particular, the pastures become scarce, compelling farmers to feed their animals indoors or herd them along valleys and rivers. “These wet areas expose the animals to high risk of contracting the parasites,” said Mr Hamad. Director of Livestock Development Asha Zahara Mohamed said that worm infections remain a serious problem to all ruminant animals, especially cattle, goats and sheep. “Worm treatment is a temporary solution because the animals get re-infected due to feeding on dirty environment in the sheds or herding lands,” argued the director. She proposed high quality feeds, with vitamins and minerals, to mitigate the impacts of worms on animals. “Cobalt deficiency for instance increases worm infections due to insufficient manufacture of blood cells...deficiency of iron exacerbate the impacts of worms that suck blood,” said Ms Asha.