AMONG human being the stories of orphaned children is full of trials, tribulations, misery and sometime death, while faced by the tragedy of poaching activities in different national parks in Africa, the society of African elephants in the wild don’t allow these evil acts to prevail. This is possible because of the presence of a matriarch leader who is responsible to build a strong family which may comprise more than 100 related females with their offspring, scientists say female elephants are the one who control the group and their successes are measured by their fellows by counting the number of offspring they have managed to rise. In any standard this is not a simple work because the female leader protects and guides her herd wherever she wants them to go, she may receive assistance from her sisters, aunts, cousins and nieces but the pressure behind this task is very big due to the nature of savannah where predators may attack at any time from any point, because of this the calves need attention all the time while others their emotions may lead them to die under the jaws of hungry lions. Scientists say sometime a large group of hungry lions may prey on a weak and lonely elephant, before adulthood some baby elephants fall victims of well organized attacks from lions who are capable of frustrating a weak, in experienced and lonely mother elephant, this is possible through separating the baby elephants from its mother who may flee from the place leaving her baby at the great danger of being killed by super predators of the savannah. Meanwhile neurobiologists say emotion is a simple way of how one can express how one feel inside, it may be pain, fear, jealous, sympathy and happiness all are short lived and may be presented through sound, actions, behaviour and chemical reaction. Like human being in the wild lions, elephants, buffaloes, zebras, leopards, wild dogs and others change their face to express what is going on inside their mind which may be sadness, grief, anger, loneliness, anxiety and curiosity. Neurobiologists say feelings of stress, rage, fear and pleasure are located in the Amygdala an agglomeration of neurons in the midbrain of animals, emotions being positive or negative it expresses experience that is associated with a particular pattern of physiological activity of the doer without taking into consideration its a man or animal. Elephant invade villages near national parks and game reserve in response of interference from humans who kill them or take up their cradle land. Scientist say among the long list of mammals who dwell in the vast tropical savannah of Africa, the structure of elephants brain has a unique complexity which is compared with that of human brain. Powered by this kind of brain, elephants are able to communicate with different signs through different movements of their tails, ears, legs and the flexible trunk on the head. These are complex signs which help them to discuss, agree or disagree on different issues which may unify or cause problems and force some conservative members to go out of the group. Scientists say because of customs and longtime friendship, these trouble makers do’nt stay away for a long time because after learning their lesson they normally return to the natal group which always welcomes them back. Members with good intention will always blow joyful rumbles and erect their trunk high in the sky to welcome back their sister and brothers who may be sorry for themselves because of foolish pride and prejudice. These welcoming rituals are always preceded by identification parade which is done chemically by sniffing unique substance with odour from the temporal gland, but to rebuild unity in the group these ceremonies are accomplished by shaking and tossing of their tusks. Scientists say elephants is able to produce ten different sounds known as laryngeal calls which include rumbles, yells and roars, elephants produce and emit different sound but trumpet is their identity echo which come from the larynx and modified by the trunk when the largest land animal is threatened or exited. Scientists say during aggression, a distressed elephant may produce a trumpet sound to seek assistance from its relatives but those who are courageous to defend themselves will stand firmly and roar. By doing this, sound plays an important role in expressing fighting ability of the aggressed elephant against its aggressor but most of these roars are finished with infrasound or low frequency sound which human ears are not able to peak. During estrous period female send chemical messages to all neighbouring males to come closer and mount her, but when young inexperienced or week contenders approaches her she will automatically chase them while producing infrasound which is able be picked by a bull browsing six to ten kilometres away. Scientists say these special calls are produced from a particular source in the larynx as they travel in low frequency of 15 to 35 hertz and may last between 10 to 15 seconds, with knowledge of a short estrous period consisting of sixteen days among elephants, if the desired male does’nt respond to these calls surprisingly experienced females will join their sister in these sexual appealing songs until the right bull arrive. After giving birth, the whole group will congregate near a new member and welcomed by blowing huge rumble but the relation between a baby elephant and its mother who provide protection and guardianship to the new born who walk on her side plead for milk by producing special roar to her provider. To be sure that its message is understood clearly, the baby elephant will produce this kind of sound while raising the trunk to force her mother to stop for milking. When the mother fail to respond to these calls the baby may will change the call into a soft roar which may force the whole group to stop and pay attention to its appeal. Most of the time elephant groups consist of female members such as sister, aunties and cousins, all these will respond to the cry from a hungry juvenile. The whole group will surround the baby elephant and use their trunks to caress its body and comfort the largest baby on land until its pleased and allow its relatives to continue with their activities. Elephants are also known to different signs to pass and respond to different message, they may shake their heads and snapping their large ears as well as throwing dust or branches and leaves from different vegetation. When a superior member is excited will raise its trunk while its subjects may respond by lowering their heads, flattening their ears against their necks and erect their ears in V shape figure. Recently it has been discovered elephant are able to communicate by using Seismic sound whereby acoustical waves are produced and sent through the ground and picked by legs which send them to the brain through shoulder bones. These signals are detected through inner ear but to get a clear message the recipient elephant has to lean forward and put more weight on their larger front feet; this is also known as the “freezing behaviour”. Meanwhile musth or must is a periodical condition of bull or male elephant which is characterized with aggressiveness behavior resulted from the rise of production hormones. The hormone is called testosterone which is found in mammals, birds and other vertebrates where in mammals it is secreted by testicles of males and ovaries for females, its a principal element for male sex hormone whereby a small amount of it is produced from the adrenaline glands. Scientists are working hard to get a clear answer about musth but its not easy because a male elephant who is going through the surge of testosterone become violent and do’nt want people to come closer with him at all for unknown reason. The rise of testosterone hormones in the male elephant has several effect but felling of having a lot of energy within his body and a desire to empty it course bulls to become cruel and unfriendly to other members of the group including female elephant and other animals in the park. rstanslaus@yahoo.com