PUPILS at Kalenga Primary School in Chikola village, Mpwayungu Ward-Chamwino District, have appealed to the government to provide them lunch while in school to concentrate in studies after being forced to trek eight kilometres to and fro their homes to school. They made a request during a seminar to pupils on how they can protect themselves from contracting Covid-19 and other pandemic diseases. The seminar was organised by a local non-governmental organization (NGO) Women Wake UP (WOWAP) to get feedback on the previous public education campaign organized by the NGO through funding from the Foundation for Civil Society. The pupils said that food was only provided to those studying in Standard Four and Seven, because they are preparing for the national examinations. A Standard Six pupil, Flora William said that every day she walks for three hours from Mchichi area in the district to her school. “I leave at home at 6am every morning, but I can arrive at school after two hours dedicating in fast walk,’’ she said. She said that by having lunch at school, they would be able to concentrate in classes and perform well during their final examinations. Another pupil, Amos Godfrey shared the same experience, and appealed to the government to look on how best children could be provided with lunch, while in school, adding that because of hunger, some of them were not coming to school. WOWAP Coordinator, Nasra Suleiman said the seminar was held to reflect on successes and challenges faced in implementation of the previous programme in the district. Regarding Covid-19 pandemic, the district’s Coordinator, Hygiene Campaign and Health Officer, Asha Msengwa noted that the council would not relent in the fight against spread of the disease. She said many residents of the district have adhered to the ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children’s directive that the public should follow the hygienic measures to keep the disease at bay. “ It is worth noting that many people in the district hold on to the government directive as almost every household has hand washing equipment with flowing water and soap as well” she said, noting that the authority is still going on with public education on the matter. According to the coordinator, this is a sign that the public education on Covid-19 and other communicable diseases have reached to a satisfying level, though there are still some challenges. She said one of the challenges is that of some local brew clubs, still have people sharing cups and straws, while doing in rounds and hardly take precautionary measures. On the other hands such joints do not have good sanitation facilities like toilets. Ms Msengwa called on peer educators to continue providing public with education, especially on observing the directives against Covid- 19 and other diseases and also to cooperate with health officer in their areas. “Let us keep on with public education on the disease that is still here to stay,” she said, added that response in both primary and secondary schools in the district is impressive.