JKT Queens’ weekend victory over Alliance Girls has given Simba Queens a boost in the race for the Mainland Women's Premier League title. The results put Simba in need of just one victory in their next game on Wednesday against Baobab Queens to be declared the champions. On Saturday Simba added three points when the stamped a 3-1 victory over Tanzanite Sports Club in a match staged at Uhuru stadium in Dar es Salaam. Oppa Clement, Julieth Singano and Joele Bukulu goals were enough to sink the Tanzanite boat. Eva Kombo scored the consolation goal for Tanzanite Sisters. Simba have so far collected 50 points, JKT Queens, who are placed second, have tied on 43 points with the third-placed Alliance, but superior goal average favours JKT Queens. Alliance Queens, who were Simba’s top rival on the title race, slowed their speed midway after a 3-2 loss to JKT at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. It was not an easy encounter for the both sides, it was really tough and highly competitive as both teams showed quality. JKT goals were netted by Isabella Mbwambo, Fatuma Mustapha and Stumai Abdallah while Janeth Matulanga and Aisha Khamis scored for Alliance. At Karume stadium Yanga Princess secured a 4-0 win over TSC Queens. Yanga’s comfortable win was inspired by Amina Ally’s  hat-trick while Grace Yusuph added a goal. Yanga are fixed at the fifth place with 33 points while TSC are placed second from the bottom of table with 12 points. In another game, Ruvuma Queens punished their Kigoma Sisters 2-0 in a match staged at Majimaji Stadium in Songea. Fumukuzi Ally scored a brace for the winner. Ruvuma have now bagged 41 points to settle at the fourth place while Kigoma have remained seventh after collecting 24 points. Mlandizi Queens at their home Mabatini stadium in Mlandizi defeated Baobab 2-1. Mlandizi scored their goals through Zainabu Dudu and Philomena Daniel. Mlandizi are now placed sixth after pocketing 29 points while Baobab are eighth with 22 points. At their home stadium, Samora in Iringa Panama Queens lost to Marsh Queens 1-0 with Annastazia Shau scoring the winner for the Queens. Marsh Queens have now climbed up to the ninth place after collecting 15 points while their opponents; Panama remain at the bottom of the table with only 4 points. 