VIJANA City Bulls campaign to win the Regional Basketball League (RBA) suffered another setback after they loss to their rivals Savio in a thrilling match at Harbours court on Friday night, while JKT yesterday beat Magnet to maintain their perfect run. The ongoing RBA League match, whose main venue is Kurasini Harbours court in the city, saw Vijana suffer a 59-47 defeat to record their third league defeat, the loss has slowed down their title race. Savio, who have already lost two matches are placed sixth with 10 points after playing six matches. However, it was not easy win for Savio, as they were forded work extra hard to beat Vijana. Vijana also lost to Oilers (75-68), and last week they suffered a 54-48 loss to Pazi at the same venue. Still Vijana have remained at the third position on the table with 11 points after playing seven games. Speaking after the match Savio coach Dassy Makula attributed his team’s victory to calmness and vigilance. The winners started well to lead 15-4 at the end of the first quarter, but it was 15-15 draw in the second quarter. Savio lost 18-15 to Vijana in the third quarter and later 14-10, they won by two points at the end of the game. Joas Maheta joined Savio after playing for Ugandan UCU team, netted 16 points as George Tarimo added 12 points for the winners. The top scorer for Vijana was Haji Mbegu who carved 18 points and Antony Jeikanga who scored 14 points, but their points were not enough to save their team. Reigning champion JKT humiliated Magnet 83-36 to retain the league’s pilot seat with 14 points from seven matches. JKT are yet to concede a defeat. They are leading by a point over ABC who have grabbed 13 points after beating Chui 85-40. In another Friday evening match at the same venue, Police who advanced to the top flight league this year, clobbered Mgulani JKT 67- 52 in a closely fought encounter. Siaba Sululu was instrumental for Police team’s win as he fetched 22 points, while Efrem Batholomeo added 17 points and William John scored 10 points with 12 rebounds to his credit. Mgulani JKT top scorers were Himid Choka (16) and Shija Robert 9 points Following the victory, Police coach King Tasso, said his team played with high discipline besides working very hard on the court.