TANZANIA Football Federation (TFF) said they will continue channeling the finals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) outside Dar es Salaam so as to resurface long lived venues. The development comes as Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga, Rukwa is geared up to stage its first ever ASFC finale involving Simba SC and Namungo FC tomorrow. So far, the contest has been played in three different venues of Dodoma, Arusha and Lindi before heading to Rukwa where the atmosphere is already at the peak prior to the big match. But, speaking from Sumbawanga, TFF president Wallace Karia said after the Dodoma and Arusha ASFC finals, they agreed to start taking the competition to areas which are not well known in terms of football and in the process, rebirth the playing venues constructed many years ago. “We realised that venues established by former leaders and elders were being abandoned leading to their depletion that is why we thought of driving the ASFC finals to such forgotten places,” said Karia. He therefore lauded Rukwa leaders for agreeing to host the high profile match and the support they have given to ensure that the finals are better than ever before. Moreover, Karia cemented that TFF will continue to upgrade different playing venues in the country under his leadership as one way to foster football development. He, therefore, urged other areas which want to stage ASFC finals to make sure that they have adequate accommodation facilities capable to welcome big number of guests. On his part, the federation’s Competitions Director Salum Madadi urged Sumbawanga residents to take care of the improved pitch after the finals. “A lot of work has been done to upgrade this facility and it is our hope that residents here will take full care of it to last for a long time,” he said. He added that what they have done is to boost the development of football in the region such that it is up to them (Rukwa people) to keep the facility safe. “The elders say to give birth is not a problem but how to raise a child is very difficult as such, on Sunday (tomorrow), we will give birth to this venue hence they must always keep it in usable state,” Madadi noted. However, no matter the outcome of the match, Namungo will fly high the national flag in the forthcoming CAF Confederations Cup since their opponents Simba already booked a ticket of competing in the CAF Champions League.