THE government has directed the contractor, who is implementing a power project under the second phase of Rural Energy Agency (REA-Phase II) in Singida Region, to report to the police everyday as proof of his presence on a project site. He will be required to do so until the project is finished. The directive was issued to the consortium of EMEC Engineering Ltd and Dynamic Engineering and System Company Ltd by Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, on Thursday when he toured the region. According to Dr Kalemani, the project was supposed to be completed since 2018, but it has been lagging behind since then. He thus wants it to be finished next month. Speaking to the Regional Peace and Security Committee Chairlady, who is Singida Regional Commissioner, Dr Rehema Nchimbi, the minister directed the contractor not get out of the region until the project was finished. He directed the RC to detain the contractor if he failed to complete the project on time. “With effect from tomorrow (yesterday) I direct the leaders and technicians of this company to report to the police everyday where they will sign as evidence of their presence on the project site. I will also need a weekly report on who signed and who didn’t,” Dr Kalemani directed. He instructed REA and Tanesco project consultants to make a follow-up on the development of the project in seven consecutive days, directing them to revoke the contract if they noticed any sign of failure. He also directed REA and Tanesco authorities to take legal measures if the contractor failed to honour contractual obligations. Submitting a project report to the minister, REA Director of Technical Services Jones Olotu and Singida Regional Tanesco Manager Francis Kaggi admitted there were weaknesses in project implementation. The contractor is entrusted with the responsibility of supplying power to all Singida districts. However, to date the progress of the project, which is supposed to benefit 3,000 residents, is below 20 per cent of its implementation and only 1,000 residents have been connected to power. The contractor has promised to complete the project on time.