WITH the 2020 general elections approaching, issues of electoral integrity, notably honesty and truthfulness during political campaigning are important to reflect on. Indeed essential because they speak a lot about our peaceful nation currently classified as a lower-middle income country. Unfortunately, despite the fact that we have, as a nation, guiding principles and specific practices that establish the framework for ethical conduct expected of participants in the political process, sadly, we citizens are beginning to witness traces of, among others, hate speeches, serious disinformation and candidates’ confusion in the public square. In my view, this is already a major concern not only because campaigning time has not come yet, but these tendencies are beginning to seriously undermine the integrity of the electoral environment and can be a threat to our democracy. That is not as it should be. I believe all candidates would know and understand that their actions make a significant contribution to the vibrancy and integrity of mother Tanzania democracy. This applies not only for the October 2020 electoral arena, but more broadly within the wider future parliamentary and political processes. At the moment, cheating and fake news is becoming of particular concern. Generally speaking, public trust among some candidates and confidence in the integrity of people is already being questioned. This observation is true and possible because detecting certain types of behaviour among candidates is easy. Yes, possible because ethical expectations and obligations that arise when people campaign and seek office from the morality and ethics that follows in their private lives, cannot easily be hidden. This we say because wananchi observations focus on what they know regarding the nature of their country’s values, principles and norms that should guide the behaviour of parties, leaders, and candidates in the performance of their roles and duties during their election campaigns. In principle, voters are important here and candidates should bear in mind and respect them. Voters of today are, so to speak, different from those of the past, because the era we live in is different and unique. We, the voters now know well to differentiate between candidates’ selfish interests and our preferences. So, I am concerned about candidates’ honesty because voters want candidates who are free from deceit or fraud. They want to see a facet of moral character that connotes positive and virtuous attributes of integrity, truthfulness, and straightforwardness. Voters don’t want lying and cheating candidates. They want candidates who are trustworthy, loyal, fair, and sincere. I am afraid we do not have many of these. From what I see and hear today, for voters to explain and maintain a distinction between the ethics of officeseeking and personal ethics is no longer difficult because most voters today are aware of the importance of the competing values, interests, viewpoints, uncertain evidence and cheating, and as we read and hear, contradictory claims in play. In fact voters are, unlike the past, much more informed of their situation. Today we no longer assume but confirm that voters rely on information provided by the media and therefore they would always focus on particular issues that affect them, even when, though not always, the media platform contains false or misleading information. No wonder voters tend to go beyond what a candidate speaks and want to be informed about and pay attention to their candidate’s behaviour. Indeed, voters of today know very well, to use the words of Charles Lamb, an English essayist and poet (1775 - 1834) , that the measure of choosing well, is, whether a man likes and finds good in what he has chosen. This wisdom from Mr Lamb is worth noting, because modern voters do not want to return to the old days when frustration which rose due to poor voting led to cries saying their government was not satisfying peoples’ basic needs and aspirations. The past is not what they desire, but what they see today and the hope that it carries. So, on my column today, I want to insist and call upon all candidates, at whatever level, to challenge their political parties to regulate their own behaviour. This is critical because if they cross ethical lines, it means they are jeopardising our well being, something that we do not want. I am not saying that if this happens the remedy that resides in the electoral and wider political process cannot help, but what I want them to know is that we have moved ahead and citizens do not want to be taken back to the past pains. So candidates’ honesty and truthfulness in political campaigning during and after the 2020 general election is of paramount importance, simply because the general public is hungry for higher standards of integrity in the election process. Let us therefore not ignore voters, for they know what they want far beyond modern media outlets which continue to also act as their intermediaries for political information. My hope is that as the election temperature keeps rising, political parties will revert into self-regulation and the political process would take care of misconduct of whoever is seeking to be elected into office. You can fool people some time, but you can’t fool them all the time. Don’t pretend to be something you aren’t. This famous quote by Aesop (620 - 564 BCE), a Greek fabulist and storyteller highlights and summarizes my call for election candidates to remember that we voters are hungry for their honesty and truthfulness. No legacy is as rich as honesty and truthfulness. Let all candidates know that the quality of our 2020 elections is looked at as important for our government legitimacy for honesty and truthfulness in political campaigning, and critical for our national destiny. My final plea to candidates and political parties can well be summarised by the words of wisdom of one of the founding Fathers of the United States, Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790), who once said; the sting of a reproach is the truth of it. Avoid dishonest gain: no price can recompense the pangs of vice. Half the truth is often a whole lie. Keep conscience clear, then never fear. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebah ene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebah ene2@yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 23997