LEOPARD Tours has emerged the overall winner of the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) Tourism Awards 2018/19. The 35 year-old Safari outfit outshone Ranger Safaris and Zara Tanzania Adventures to clinch the award, which recognizes and motivates key players in the multimillion dollar industry setting a benchmark for service delivery and sustainable tourism development. Receiving the gong on behalf of the company, Leopard Tours Marketing Consultant Mr Andrew Kimolo described the feat as a pleasant surprise to the firm which boasts of a plethora of Safari vehicles fleet. “This has come as a shock to us, especially after what the sector has been through recently… all in all, it is worth celebrating this honour,” he said. Mr Kimolo expressed gratitude to the government for staying by the tour operators’ side at a time when Covid-19 took a toll on the 2bn/- industry. In other categories, Nomad Tanzania Limited was feted as the best tour operator in Night Game Drive Activities while Makoa Farm scooped the Best Tour Operating Company in Horse riding. Wayo Africa bagged the Best Tour Operator in Canoeing while the Four Seasons Safari Lodge walked away with the award of the best Tour Operator in Bush Meal Activities. There was, for the first time, the Mawenzi Peak Technical Calso the Climbing category, a feat that belonged to Ahsante Tours. In his vote of thanks, Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (TATO) Chairperson Mr Wilbrod Chambulo urged fellow operators and owners of hotel facilities to lower their tariffs to enable locals make the most of the natural resources found in the country. “We all know how heavy we’ve been dealt with in this Pandemic, nonetheless, let’s also turn our attention and focus on domestic tourism, it doesn’t hurt if you charge 100,000/- for a room to accommodate a Tanzanian family,” advised Mr Chambulo who also owns Kibo Guides Company. In his remarks, Natural Resources and Tourism Minister Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla saluted the winners of different categories, further challenging them to exert more focus in elevating the industry. “Psychology dictates that anyone who does well deserves positive reinforcement, your achievement, hence with, should be an impetus of doing even better,” he said.