ZANZIBAR Minister for Labour, Empowerment, Elderly, Women and Children, Dr Maudline Castico, has said girls and women must remain at the centre of interventions to address the socioeconomic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Addressing about a hundred participants during a South-South Cooperation Virtual Ministerial Roundtable Meeting organised by UN Women recently, Dr Castico said Covid-19 recovery efforts should not lose sight of a need to continue pushing for progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goal 5 which promotes gender equality and the empowerment of women. The roundtable meeting highlighted a need to safeguard women’s rights and put in place workable measures to strengthen gender equality as part of development initiatives and Covid-19 response and recovery interventions in all countries. Entitled ‘Ensuring Progress Towards SDG 5 Amid the Covid-19 pandemic – from Response to Recovery: Experiences from China and Global Partners’, the roundtable was a South-South Cooperation initiative, which refers to a framework that enables the exchange of ideas, experiences and opportunities between entrepreneurs, communities and experts from the Global South. Participants, who included senior government representatives from China, Tanzania, Jordan, Pakistan, Nigeria, Liberia, Mali, Uganda, Egypt and Myanmar shared their country experiences, reflecting on how they were addressing gender-related concerns during the pandemic and through recovery programmes. “Although Covid-19 cases have significantly declined in Tanzania. Girls and women have been affected and, therefore, we must ensure our systems are more resilient than before to adequately and effectively address the effects of the pandemic on them. We are expanding our development programmes through gender equality lens to ensure the effects of the pandemic do not push Tanzania back from where we have made significant progress in gender equality, such as women’s leadership, ending violence against girls and women, access to justice, girl education and women’s economic empowerment,” she said. Dr Castico also shared Tanzania’s success in containing Covid-19, highlighting the critical role played by women leaders, UN Women Tanzania, women’s rights organisations and other partners to ensure national Covid-19 response and recovery plans for Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar were gender-responsive. Lessons learnt from Ebola and Zika outbreaks in other countries show that infectious diseases can magnify existing inequalities, including gender, economic status, education and participation in recovery. In an interview this week, UN Women Representative in Tanzania Hodan Addou said they had realigned their interventions to meet new gender equality needs and priorities to support Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar. “A need to build more equal communities, which are also resilient to future shocks is a priority area for us. That is why it is critical to work with partners to ensure gender concerns are fully integrated in all our projects. We are looking at more gender equality interventions that can address various areas of concern, including gender-based violence, help revive the livelihoods of women, promote sustainable sharing of the burden of care at home and continue promoting women’s leadership in all development efforts,” Ms Addou said. However, the South-South initiative set the wheels in motion for actions in a ‘new normal’, clearly showing that achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women could no longer be delayed, given some lessons learned from various countries that reflected the multilayered impact of Covid-19 on girls and women. Participants shared how countries had put in place measures such as gender-responsive policy mechanisms, upscaled emergency support for the most vulnerable and the ‘new poor’, had taken decisive actions to end gender-based violence, including sexual assaults and improved data analytics and digital technology to help deliver services with efficiency and greater speed. These survival strategies are likely to become part of government structures in many countries, transforming ways of working for improved disaster preparedness. The latest report from the World Health Organisation (WHO) show that while cases are on the rise in some countries, in others they are declining. Following the coronavirus pandemic in Wuhan, China, in 2019, at least 19,936,210 cases of Covid-19 and 732,499 deaths were confirmed globally. To contain the pandemic, the People’s Republic of China has applied a ‘whole society intervention approach’, demonstrating political will towards gender equality through the inclusion of women across key sectors of the economy. This was a key strategy that contributed to the country’s success stories in containing the pandemic. Speaking during the roundtable meeting, Ms Huang Xiaowei, Vice-President and First Member of the Secretariat of the All China Women’s Federation (ACWF) and Vice-Chairperson of the National Working Committee on Children and Women under the State Council of China, urged countries to place the needs of girls and women at the centre of all interventions to effectively address the impact of Covid-19. “While we are taking actions to address the pandemic and focus on socioeconomic recovery, we must place greater consideration on women’s needs through listening to the voices and taking effective measures to safeguard their rights and interests. We must emphasise women’s participation and contribution, focus on the active role women play and pay attention to the lives and advancement of women. We must also strengthen public awareness at community level, with the shared future for humankind to unite more and work together to address risks and challenges,” she said. Lessons from China’s experience show that when gender-sensitive mechanisms are put in place across all sectors of the economy, lives can be saved and livelihoods protected. However, in many countries in Africa, Asia Pacific, the Arab States and the Middle East, progress is still uneven and uncertain. The participants reflected on the DRC, Liberia and Sierra Leone, where women were still trying to recover from the effects of the Ebola virus when the coronavirus struck. The pandemic has also worsened situations in conflict-affected countries, including Yemen, Libya, Palestine and Syria and increased a need for resources in countries suffering from food insecurity and rising the rate of HIV/Aids. In her keynote address, UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka called for strengthened partnerships and increased investments to support the recovery of women who were desperate after losing their livelihoods. “We have seen that, in many pandemics, women never recover from the impact and their pain, and as a result, the effects become a lifetime experience. History should not repeat itself, and that is why partnerships like this one are so critical to ensure that gender-responsive measures are institutionalised in national response and recovery plans in all countries.” “We need to strengthen collaborative efforts in safeguarding the interests of girls and women and to help countries achieve SDG 5 on gender equality and the empowerment of all women,” said Ms Mlambo-Ngcuka. She highlighted the negative economic impact on women working in some sectors of the economy such as garments, textile and tourism sectors in many countries, citing a lack of enforceable contracts as one of the reasons compounding challenges faced by many women.