THE Development Partners Group (DPG) have commended the government’s efforts in reducing stunting growth rate, calling for a broader and encompassing platform to further upscale nutrition awareness, mobilization and advocacy efforts. “Recently, we have seen good progress on stunting reductions from 42per cent in 2015 to 32per cent in 2018 among under fives, which has put Tanzania among few countries with high stunting reduction globally,’’ said DPG Representative, Tumaini Mikindo. Speaking during the commemoration of Nutrition Day in the country, Mr Mikindo, said that the reduction of stunting in the country reflects the commitments by the government to improve nutrition as the country strives to becoming fully industrialised by 2025. “It remains important for the country to continue investing in nutrition to address chronic malnutrition, which still affect about three million children and to ensure the realized gains are not lost,’’ added Mr Mikindo. He said Development Partners acknowledge the leadership and oversight provided by the government to ensure that nutrition was a key government priority. Mr Mikindo said that in the past five years the nutrition community had witnessed nutrition embraced in national policies and plans including the five-year national development plan, adding that such remarkable and coherent initiatives attracted a lot of interest and nutrition support in Tanzania. Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu said that the government has made tremendous strides in improving nutrition. She said her plan was to write a letter to the Minister of Education, Science and Technology so that she can direct all head teachers and headmasters in both Primary and Secondary Schools countrywide to ensure that there were milk shops at schools. “Our children need to drink enough milk and I am quite sure that majority of pupils are given between 500/- and 1,000/- per day by their parents, therefore instead of spending that money in buying ice-cream they should buy milk ,’’ said the Minister. Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre (TFNC), Executive Director, Dr Germana Leyna said that Tanzania has started marking the National Nutrition Day for the first time and that from now on every August 7 each year. “This is an important day to intensify awareness campaigns for nutrition in the country so as to have a healthy nation that can bring development,’’ she noted.