YOUNG Africans kit and merchandise suppliers GSM said they are practically fulfilling their pledge made last season, that they will be involved in all transfer deals at the club ahead of the next season. This has so far been achieved after completing deals of three domestic players, who are midfielder Zawadi Mauya from Kagera Sugar, central defender Bakari Mwamnyeto (Coastal Union) and left back Yassin Mustapha from Polisi Tanzania. Mwamnyeto’s arrival will help to cement the team’s backline and he is considered as the long-term replacement of veteran defender Kelvin Yondani. Both Mwamnyeto and Mustapha were pillars of their respective teams last season in the top flight league, no wonder they did a remarkable job to enable their sides stay in the contest next season. The two players have since penned down a two year contract each to work for the Jangwani Street based side despite recent criticisms from fans that they should hire a competent technical bench first before recruiting new players. Since the opening of the transfer window by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) last Saturday until midnight of August 31st this year, only two teams Yanga and Azam have been busy on the market, buying what they want prior to the next season. Yanga have also declared that the deals they are accomplishing are in response to the requirements of the team’s technical bench, saying their top priority is to win the top flight league next season. GSM already indicated that they will be behind all the player signings and that they will be answerable if the team will fail to impress during the forthcoming campaign. “We are ready to make tangible recruitment of players to create a squad capable to challenge for titles next term. As GSM, we will be fully involved in this exercise,” said GSM's Investment Director Hersi Said. Among other players rumoured to be making their way to join Yanga are the club's former striker Heritier Makambo for DR Congo as well as former Simba defensive midfielder Ghanaian James Kotei. Other foreign based players linked to land at Yanga include Mukoko Tonombe (AS Vita), Tuisila Kisanda (AS Vita) and Eric Rutanga (Rayon Sports). However, Yanga affiliates are wide awake to hear, who will be named to take helm of the club as Head Coach, following the sacking of the Belgian trainer Luc Eymael. Meanwhile, Champions Simba SC are yet to announce who they are bringing to reinforce the squad in readiness of the CAF Champions League (CAF CL) next term. Simba's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingisa was once heard, saying they will embark on strengthening the squad after finishing their Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) final against Namungo in Sumbawanga yesterday.