ZANZIBAR Agricultural Research Institute (ZARI) has introduced a promising intercropping system for cassava and sweet potatoes with potential of drastically increasing production. Under the new system, moderate application of industrial fertilizers is recommended to achieve maximum yields. Speaking at the just ended third Nanenane exhibitions at Chamanangwe grounds, Pembabased Chief Food Crop Research Officer with ZARI Khatibu Bakari Haji, described the new intercropping system as the panacea of poverty among peasants in Zanzibar. “We have conducted extensive research on the intercropping of Kizimbani and Mayai varieties for cassava sweet potatoes, respectively... the results are highly promising,” the researcher told the ‘Daily News’ at the exhibition grounds. He said although the intercropping system may reduce cassava yields, the shortage will be compensated by potato harvests. “Ultimately, mixing cassava and potatoes will result into bumper harvests and greatly benefit the farmers,” said Mr Bakari, hinting that farmers can harvest over 32 tonnes of cassava and potatoes from one hectare. Ordinarily, Zanzibar and particularly Pemba farmers, harvest between one and 2.7 tonnes of cassava and less than one tonne of sweet potatoes per hectare, the researcher said. He proposed application of fertilizers on nutrient deficient soils but cautioned that, “The use of fertilizers alone will not increase yields on infertile soils...organic fertilizers and plant residues have to be added on barren soils to achieve good production.” Spacing is also another important aspect if the new system has to yield maximally, Mr Bakari explained, adding that properly spaced, one hectare will accommodate 8,000 plants—4,000 each for cassava and potatoes. Trade Facilitator with Arushabased Farm Concern International Mariam Rehan Mwinyi, implored Zanzibar farmers to embrace the new farming system to boost their production and ultimate earnings. “These researched technologies will have an impact if farmers embrace them to improve their farm production and household incomes,” said Ms Rehan, whose organisation works with the research institute, inviting farmers to practice the certified intercropping system. The officers also advised farmers to use approved seed varieties, warning that the use of uncertified seedlings of the crops may plunge them into unbearable losses.