ON Thursday night this week, the ITV had a programme titled, Nguvu ya Hoja which simply means debate in which four discussants debated, under the chairmanship of the anchor, Hemed Kivuyo, on problems relating to the registration of foreign soccer players in Tanzania. Of course, like many local television stations in the country, one of this particular programme’s problems on the night in question was its failure to remind the viewing and listening public of both title of the subject under discussion and the names of the discussants. But generally, it was a very good programme that shed light on a number of issues relating to the politics of registration of foreign soccer players in this country. What was interesting about this programme is that it was aired on the second day after I had the publication of my sports column on Wednesday, this week in which I had expressed concern over Simba’s decision to sign Morisson from their traditional rivals, Young Africans. My concern was that the player in question had shown lack of discipline while under their rivals, and that much as he was a very talented player, but to me that was not enough. For those who had the opportunity of watching the programme may also agree with me that the Thursday night sports programme also showed how deep seated division between Simba and Yanga was among Tanzanians. It was quite clear to note the divide among the four discussants whenever the issue of Bernard Morrison came to the fore. They spoke with a lot of ‘feelings’ and this is one of the biggest problems we have in this country. It is a big problem because more often than not, it has tended to blinker us from dealing, effectively, with our soccer problems on account of our partisanship to either of the two so-called big guns. For instance, very little was spent by the discussants in the debate on how to address the problem of registering low quality foreign soccer players, a problem that appears to have come to stay. Of course, the discussants agreed that the problem was partly caused by involvement, in the recruitment process, of people who were more interested in lining up their pockets rather than bringing in top flight foreign soccer players. Although most of us share the foregoing argument, however, we had expected to get from the discussants a lasting solution to the problem which includes the use of, but not limited to, the technical bench in the exercise. I’m saying the use of, but not limited to the technical bench, because examples are in galore in which the head coach was used to register foreign soccer players but the result left a lot to be desired. In fact, when you talk of the use of the technical bench, no club can vouch this problem more than Young Africans who had used their head coach to bring in some players most of whom turned out to be a flop! That is why I still believe that given the high profile of the four people who participated in the Nguvu ya Hoja programme on Thursday night, this week, they should have provided us with a lasting solution on how to deal with the problem. They failed to provide us with the solution because they spent too much time on Morisson rather than providing viewers and listeners with the solution which could have taken care of people like Morisson. What was more disappointing is that even those who phoned in were more interested in the Morisson question rather than the proverbial big picture, namely, the way forward in curing the sickest man of sports, soccer. I would, therefore, like to appeal to the anchorman who ably steered the debate on Thursday night this week, to organize, with the same group, another Nguvu ya Hoja programme to get answers to the problems I have raised. I strongly believe that the group has what it takes to provide the public with a solution to the problem if they are told to concentrate on the problem not on their personal feelings on Simba and Young Africans. I’m saying this because unless and until we get out of this Simba, Young Africans conundrum, we will never manage to reorganize soccer in this country. Indeed, we need to ask ourselves, and honestly at that, why a club like Azam FC which does not have the club, members/fans self-interest problems which face both Simba and Young Africans, has failed to buy high quality foreign soccer players when it does not have financial problems? The fact that Azam FC continues to face the same problem means that we have a very big problem which can be addressed by people like Aden Rage, Frank Mwita and the other two gentlemen who participated in the ITV programme and whose names I have forgotten. One of the men who had described himself as a professional teacher, spoke of what the late Syllersaid Mziray had said, as he lived on, about the number of members and fans who solely depended on Simba and Young Africans for their livelihood. Unfortunately the man was wrong when he spoke of 300 families in Dar es Salaam. But Mziray’s figure which was based on his own research was not 300 but 6,000 families! In fact, the coach who trained both Simba and Young Africans and won against either side, had gone on to say, that was one of the main reasons why it would be very difficult for the two clubs to succeed as long as they continued to cling to the ownership structure that revolves around members/fans. One of the four members of the group in the debate on Thursday night was spot on when he said many of the people who claimed to be avid members and lovers of the two clubs were actually there for their own personal rather than club interest. And these are the people both clubs need to deal with. And the best way of doing that is changing club ownership structure by running the clubs as companies. I liked what Rage said about what the National Sports Council can do and which is within their ambit, ensuring both clubs had audited accounts. That is the only way of dealing with people whose interests is to line up their pockets.