DEFENDING champions JKT beat DB Youngsters 82-42 to leapfrog ABC again and reclaim the Basketball Dar es Salaam Association (BD) RBA League’s pilot seat at Kurasini Harbour courts, in Dar es Salaam yesterday. In-form JKT led the game right from the start on their way to registering their eighth victory that put them at the top of the table with 16 points. They are the only team that has not conceded a defeat since the league resumed last month after the end of Covid-19 scare. They go ahead of their closest challengers ABC who have collected 15 points from the same number of games. JKT started with 19-5 lead at the end of the first quarter and added a 22-8 lead in the second quarter before posting 17-11 and 24-18 leads in the third and fourth quarters respectively. Prudence Shija produced wonderful performance for the winners with 32 points while Jimmy Brown added 11 points more while doing 12 rebounds for the winners. The top scorers for DB Youngsters top were Jamal Iddi who poured in 15 points and Ashraf Kapelege who added 10 points. Prior to the match, Kurasini Heat hammered Chui 88-52 at the same venue late Friday. The win helped Kurasini Heat to strengthen their race for the top-four finish. The win has moved them up to third place on the standings with 13 points after playing seven matches. They have a good chance to climb up if the second-placed ABC beat Police in today’s afternoon match at the same venue. Kurasini Heat coach, Isihaka Masoud said since they lost to ABC his players have turned their focus to all remaining games including the tough one against leaders JKT. “Our plan is to ensure we collect two points from JKT, Vijana City Bulls, Savio and DTB as we focus on topping the table and grab one of the four play-off places,” he said. Former Kurasini Kings player Zani Oscar combined well with the Kurasini Heat’s top players Erick Lugola, Mwalimu Heri, Isaya Aswile and Dominic Zacharia to ensure they win. On Friday night Oilers humiliated 101-52 Police. During the match Herve Mbaya hit 29 points for the winners and Ally Juma added 15 points while Police’s Siaba Sululu scored 14 points and William John added 11 more points.