PUGILISTS from JKT commanded the show at the semi stage of the National Boxing Championship at Tanganyika Packers in Kawe after bringing the biggest of boxers to the final. The first on the ring was Abdallah Mohamed from national service unit (JKT) who defeated Mustafa Amiri from Kawe in a light fly weight after he failed to appear on the ring. Hamadi Ashim from Iringa was the second boxer to step in the final after beating Aziz Chala of JKT by points decision in the light fly weight bout. The bout was thrilling Hashim a civilian in the events whose majority boxers come from armed forces units. John Mchonga from Tanzania Prisons was the third boxer to book a place in the final after beating Bakari Mohamed from Iringa in 56kg bantam weight bout. Mchonga dominated in all three rounds and won by points against his opponent. The fourth bout between Hussein Juma and Boniface Mlingwa was also thrilling. Mlingwa lost the bout by points, even though he showed a world class challenge to Hussein Juma. Both boxers are from JKT In the light weight (60kg) bout, semis Hassan Mrutu won over Said Kanenda. Both boxers were from JKT. The welterweight bout saw Shabani Mganda outpointing Yusufu Mambo by points. Both pugilists came from JKT. Mohamed Juma sailed to the final in a welterweight bout after he knocked out his fellow JKT boxer Minhaji Ally in the second round. Gurushadi Rashid from JKT also sealed the final ticket in the welter weight division after he knocked Hilali Mwandeja from Kawe. Two other JKT boxers met in the middle weight (75kg) in which Haruna Sinunda won over Daniel Elyakunda by points. In the same division of weight Huled Rashid from JKT dominated in all rounds when he beat Joseph Walter from Tanzania Prisons. Light Heavyweight semis had two bouts. Justine Chota from Tanzania Prisons ousted Abdallah Dambwe by points. In the other bout Musa Changarawe from Mwanza was declared a winner against Emmanuel Augustino from JKT after the fight was stopped by the referee for medical reasons. In a Super Heavy weight (91kg) Alex Sita from JKT was declared the winner over his opponent Philemon John whose coach was forced to throw in a towel to save him.