JKT Stars basketball team mercilessly humiliated Ukonga Princess 166-7 in a one-sided Dar es Salaam Regional Ladies Basketball League match yesterday. The ladies category basketball showdown that was at Kurasini Harbours courts in the city saw winners dominate in all four quarters. It was JKT Stars fourth straight victory since the league started in July this year after the end of the hiatus. JKT started strongly to record a 43-2 lead at the end of the first quarter and went to the breather leading 92-4. Their dominance continued in the third quarter where the stamped a convincing 36-1 lead before finishing off their opponents with 38-2 at the end of the final quarter. JKT Stars' ace Jesca Ngisaiise was the top scorer after hitting hefty 52 points followed by Sarah Budodi who added 15 points more. Angel Nyarabwa who scored 6 points was the top scorer for Ukonga Princess. The victory earned JKT Stars 8 total points from four games to settle at the third place. They are yet to concede a game. Ladies category's leaders are Jeshi Stars who also defeated Ukonga Queens 53-35 in another game staged at the same venue yesterday. Jeshi Stars didn’t seem to start strongly and that saw them finishing the first quarter one point down with a scoreboard leading 7-6. But the team woke up from a slumber to claim a convincing 23-12 lead at the breather. They again lost composure in the third quarter and that punished them to 12-9 loss at the end. Jeshi Stars came back very strong in the final quarter to post a huge 15-4 lead that assured them a 53-35 victory at the end. Faraja Malaki poured in 29 points and Lucy Agustino added 8 points to victors, while Ukonga Queens’ Faitha Mzurah hit 10 points and Witness Mapunda added 9 points. Jeshi Stars lead the table with 10 points from six matches followed by Ukonga Queens at second also with 10 points after playing six games. Third are JKT with 8 points, but they have played only four games. Oilers defeated Kurasini Heat 82-78 in the Men’s RBA League match and the victory moved them up to third position on log with 19 points from 11 matches they have played so far. They have a point shy of leaders JKT who have accumulated 20 points from 10 matches. They are yet to concede a match. ABC were second with10 points from ten matches after the last Friday night’s match.