THE Management team for the Network of Community Media in Tanzania (TADIO) has been called upon to curb conflicts among its members, since the eye for an eye approach would make the whole world blind. Amani Shayo, a facilitator from Empower Limited, expressed the sentiments recently in Bagamoyo during his presentation on leadership skills and conflict resolution as part of a session for the TADIO secretariat staff and board members. “You need to minimize the scales of outbreaks by stopping it from spreading too far. Conflicts should be taken as an opportunity, manage it well. Deal with conflict when it is still hot, to solve it,” Shayo advised. According to Shayo, management means doing things right, while as leadership is doing the right things. “Management is about philosophies as well as personalities. Who we are, is a resemblance of how we lead. Our leadership skills are different. The leadership is a reflection of what each one of us does,” said Shayo. For his part, Prosper Kwigize, TADIO’s Board Chairperson, called upon participants to think of TADIO and to enable them understand better the people they lead to understand how best to serve them. “Each community radio has its own behaviour, ambition and strategy to serve the community. As leaders, we have a duty to control the behaviours of our member community radios,” said Kwigize. In Tanzania, UNESCO through funding from the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC), supports 25 community radios and the Network of Community Media in Tanzania, (TADIO) an entity with 35 members comprising of 34 community radios and Pemba Press Club. The support is meant to ensure that people in Tanzania, especially the poor, women and girls, have the capacity to make informed decisions on issues that affect their daily lives based on access to relevant, culturally appropriate, gender responsive accurate information and knowledge. The coverage of community radio stations under the network is 74 per cent of the United Republic of Tanzania. UNESCO, with funding from the SDC has contracted Empower Limited to build institutional capacity of TADIO.