THE Arusha Regional Football Association (ARFA) is on the verge of conducting its General Elections, but while preparations are going on, government officials have stepped in to question the whole process. Benson Maneno is the Deputy Registrar of Sports Clubs in the Arusha City Prefecture, who through an official letter with serials UD/R.40/1/92, has requested the ARFA officials to produce relevant documents to back the authenticity of both the association and election process. “My office has requested ARFA officials to produce two types of valid documents; copies of authentic club constitution and a copy of registration certificate for the Football Association, as required by the law,” stated Maneno. According to the City Sports official, the National Sports Council (BMT) Act number 12 of 1967, demands that all clubs and sports associations in the country must be fully registered and operating under respective members’ endorsed constitutions. “It should be understood that we are not trying to stop ARFA’s General Elections, I do not possess such authority, it is only that my office demands the association to go about the process as per the country laws and regulations,” said Maneno. As it happens the Arusha City Sports office here, has not received the official documents from ARFA, but Maneno said they have given the association officials up to Monday the 3rd of August 2020 to produce both the certificate and constitution. When contacted about the issue, the Secretary General for the Arusha Regional Football Association (ARFA), Zakayo Mjema said it was too early to comment about the subject because they were preparing for the elections. “Plus we are not about to start exchanging words with government officials, soon we shall meet to discuss the issue with sports officials,” Mjema, maintained. The Election Committee of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) had announced the General Election for the Arusha regional Football Association (ARFA) to be held on the 2nd of September 2020. According to the TFF release, the leadership slots to be filled during the ARFA polls include the Chairman Post, Vice-Chairman, Secretary General, Deputy Secretary, Treasurer and Annual General Meeting Representatives and Clubs representative. The elections will also entail voting for members of the Association’s Executive Committee.