A CALL to players to be ready for fierce battle as all big football leagues in Tanzania seemed to be tough and highly competitive. The ongoing transfer season has been quite motivating to see home-based players dominating the whole transfer show as opposed to the past when players from the rest of Africa dominated the transfer headlines. This should not be taken as the top flight league affair, since from what we have seen and evidenced, The First Division League (FDL) and the Women Football League have also become very tough due to the increase in professionalism awareness. Local players and coaches should take this as a positive note because it means the market for the home-based players has grown after seeing just a few cases of signed deals that involve foreign imports. Opting for the home-grown players means either our players’ class has gone up or the country has enough players for its top flight league. From what we have seen in the just ended season, professionalism has made a drastically improvement in terms of playing, promotion and competitiveness something we hope to be further polished in the coming season with main sponsors Vodacom and Azam Sports spearheading all what you see as success. We take this opportunity to call for vigilance in recruiting players and coaches as we expect every team to fight hard for the frequent wins so to avoid relegation. We expect to see a lot from the newly promoted teams like Gwambina who recently snatched the former Young Africans coach, Mwinyi Zahera to serve as a head of the technical bench. We need the players to understand that more cohesion and unity can lead them to the desired goal. We call all clubs actively engaged in transfer window showbiz to engage their technical sections to follow the progress of their newly players to ensure they deliver. It’s never too late for those aspiring to be great players as they should right now start to focus how to join the ranks of the international players by showing their quality skills in the local leagues. Those aspiring to be future global stars should clearly know by serving well their clubs they will be exposed to the big leagues like English Premier League like Mbwana Samatta who has already laid a track- road for them by serving Aston Villa.