THE former Simba Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingisa said it was unfair to accuse him of failure to maximise profits and cut down costs during his tenure at the club. He made the statement as a response to the claims made by the club’s top investor Mohamed Dewji ‘Mo’ who recently during an interview disclosed that one of the reasons for Mazingisa’s departure was his failure to maximise profits. “When I joined the club, we sat down with the executive and the board of directors to approve the budget. If he said I failed to maximise profits it is unfair because my last report I submitted showed I achieved that. “I worked under the budget and saved some couple of shillings in the same budget and when you say I have not cut down costs what do you mean?” asked Mazingisa upon his arrival at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) on Thursday. He added: “If he (Mo) has made that statement is unfair because the report he has on his table will prove him contrary to what he is saying to the public. It is not true,” he said. Additionally, the former Simba boss lamented that it was impossible for the club to just start making big profits without building a strong foundation saying that is what he was gradually achieving. “Unfortunately, all such things could not be implemented as we had some fundamental differences which I did not agree with...but it is unfair for him to accuse me like that on the radio,” he said. He, however, conceded that he enjoyed every moment he spent at Simba but said challenges were there too hence as a professional, after realizing that they could not see eye to eye, he chose to quit his roles. “I know it came as a shock but it was not something which did not come overnight and had been building up. I respect Simba as an institution and I wish them all the best in the upcoming CAF Champions League. “The only thing I cry for at Simba is their supporters. I am very sorry to them but it is part of life. Football for me is my career, work and something I make a living from. It is like you, if you are not happy where you are, you move on.” said he.