WHEN you talk about people who have a passion for what they do, then maybe you will be talking about the teachings of Leo Babauta, who paints a picture of someone who jumps out of bed early because she is excited to go to work. A person like that might put in more hours than the average person, and it will not seem like a difficult thing to do, because time seems to fly by quickly while they are performing their tasks. Work, people say, is not work, but something that is fun, interesting, and exciting. “It is not a “job” but a passion.” Babauta’s teachings mirror the old Confucius saying, “Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.” Yes, doing what you love is great, but it is not always that simple - it can be difficult to figure out what you love and how to translate that into a viable business or job. It was not the case for Sr. Mahawa Kisella Assenga. She knew what she loved and what she wanted to do for a living, and she knew her passion very early. Growing up in Dar es Salaam, Sister Assenga, as she is commonly called, wanted to become a nurse from day one, and she fought for that dream and finally achieved it. Today, Sr. Assenga is a Senior Assistant Nursing Officer One, who is a specialized theatre nurse in cardiothoracic and vascular surgery at Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI). “I like what I am doing,” Sr. Assenga, the first born of Kisella and Matarimo family says. Her joy is to see patients recovering after surgery and return to their normal life. After completing her Ordinary Secondary School in 1992, she was selected to join a secretarial course at Tanzania Public Service College (TPSC). However, deep-down in her heart, she was determined to serve people as a nurse. While at TPSC, she heard of the Ministry of Health advertisement, which called for youth who wanted to study nursing to apply. With the help of friends, she managed to send her application, and she was selected to join Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC) for a four-year diploma course in nursing. She dropped the secretarial course. Luckily, her father honoured her decision and supported her all the way. “Many people discouraged me, telling me that nursing was difficult, but I was determined and decided to follow my dream,” Sr. Assenga, a wife and a mother of four remembers. After college, she briefly worked at a dispensary in Dar es Salaam, and later joined the Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania (CCBRT) hospital in 2000 as a nurse in the eye care department. At CCBRT, she met a renowned anesthesiologist and critical care physician, Dr. Mpoki Ulisubisya, who trained her before she started working as a pediatric, anesthetist and theatre scrub nurse. This was after working for two years at the hospital. At CCBRT, she was eventually elevated as the nurse leader at the hospital’s theatre. Dr. Ulisubisya, one of the first few doctors to be trained as anesthesiologist in Tanzania and who currently works as the country’s High Commissioner to Canada, tried to woo Sr. Assenga to specialize in anesthesia, but failed miserably. “I just feared losing my profession as a nurse while working as a nurse anesthetist. I considered the work too risky, Sr. Assenga notes. After five years at CCBRT, Sr. Assenga applied for a  government nursing post and succeeded. She was posted to Ocean Road Hospital in 2005. Among other things, the hospital specializes in cancer treatment. Assenga recalls the excruciating pain the patients go through during treatment, especially when they are with nurses. At that time, the hospital was understaffed, but nonetheless, Sr. Assenga and her colleagues worked diligently to effectively serve the patients. “It was normal working for longer hours, and we were happy about it. This is something that young nurses should learn,” she notes. In September 2005, Assenga got a letter informing her of an opportunity for further studies. This was part of the Tanzanian government’s efforts to establish a hospital(s) to perform open-heart surgeries in Tanzania. She was consequently one of the first 27 local professionals selected from different health specialties to be trained for the purpose. She was trained as a scrub nurse in India at the Care Hospital Hyderabad for a year. She later went for further training in Israel at Wolfson Hospital in southern Tel Aviv under the sponsorship of Save Children Heart (SACH) and Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) for special in house training for open heart surgery in pediatric. In September 2006, Sr. Assenga was transferred from Ocean Road Hospital to Muhimbili National Hospital after successful completion of her training. Specialist theatre nurses in open-heart surgeries have crucial responsibilities. “We are called the advocates of patients. A nurse is a professional like any other,” she notes, adding that a nurse must perform well for a surgery to succeed. As a cardiothoracic and vascular theatre nurse, Sr. Assenga works as part of the surgical service and operating room team that treat open-heart (cardiovascular) patients. She assists with patient care, ensuring that sterile procedures are followed during surgery. She also makes sure that consumables, necessary equipment and medications are always available for the operating room team and the assurance of patients’ safety. Sr. Assenga explains “a nurse should have passion for whatever they are doing to save lives and serve people.” She urges more young men and women to opt for science subjects and strive to pursue nursing courses. “Nursing is not about cleaning wounds only, as many used to believe, we have huge tasks in the healthcare system. A Nurse plays a vital role in the healthcare system.”