INSIDE a state-of-the-art Muhimbili Orthopedic Institute (MOI) ward, rays of hope radiate through. Dozens of patients, filled with hopes, are resting on their beds, probably counting on their blessings. They’re on a long road to recovery, nursing injuries of various magnitudes. For them it is important that they cheated death; that they’re still alive. Among them are four commercial motorcyclists: Mohamed Idd from Kiteto, Manyara Region, Livingstone Saiboko from Kilosa, Morogoro Region, Salum Ally and Hamza Ally from Chanika and Magomeni in Dar es Salaam Region. The quartet was recently admitted at Muhimbili Orthopedic Institute (MOI) after being involved in terrible road crashes against fellow riders. On their own accounts, their compatriots were responsible for the crashes since riding at high speed without taking cautions. All victims suffered several leg fractures. Unfortunately, in all incidents, the culprits ran away, leaving the victims with no immediate help. Only two accused in the Kilosa and Kiteto crashes were identified, thanks to a small number of motorcyclists interactions in those areas. Again it was easy to identify the accused because the victims didn’t fall unconscious. They were both able to mark not the faces but cargos the accused carried on their bodaboda; iron sheet for the Kilosa case and charcoal bags for Kiteto. First responders were able to notice the accused and they were arrested after a manhunt exercise . Both accused motorcyclists were found with no driving licence. “Again, my accused is a very young guy. He is in a group of those who have been operating bodaboda without attending any driving courses. But in such a situation, it is bodaboda owners who are to blame at the first hand because it is illogical to hand over the motorcycle for a person with neither proper driving skills nor licence, and he engages in carrying passengers,” lamented Mr Saiboko who suffered several fractures on his left leg and some deformities on jaws as well as ruptures on his lips. What pained him a lot was the fact that neither owner nor an operator has ever communicated with him since the accident. “My all production activities have stopped and I do not know how long I will stay here because as you see my injuries are still fresh. My wife ran away and left me all four children who are still youngcompletely dependent on me,” he further lamented, with tears trying to come out. He aired his views that there is a need for an introduction of bodaboda trucking systems, the situation that would ease the arrest of any operator involved in any type of crime. Again, he added, when found that bodaboda operator has no driving licence while causing an accident, the owners should be answerable. Mr Saiboko also affirmed to have been observing children (under 18) operating bodaboda in his home village, the situation that endangers their passengers and other road users, hence, relevant authorities should take immediate measures. His fellow patient (Mr Idd), who apart from several fractures on his left leg also experiences pelvic complications, aired almost the same views, stressing that: “What hurts most is the fact that my business has stopped for an unknown period. The situation shows that I’ll be in bed for not less than three months. My family is vehemently suffering.” It was, however, impossible for the Dar es Salaam crashes. The busiest nature of this highly-populated city means the culprits were able to escape from the accident scenes. For Mr Hamza and his fellow patient Salum, it was not easy to identify those who hit them, as they disappeared soon after the crashes. They both aired almost the same views over the importance of bodaboda trucking system, saying it would be one and only solution over ‘hit and run’ type of road crushes, which involve many road users. It would also serve in compensation issuance as many bodaboda accident victims have been denied such a right, said Mr Hamza who had badly injured his head and right leg. “Even if the operators are disqualified to drive, including lack of driving licence, then the owners must be answerable as long as their motorcycles get compounded. I have suffered a big loss because I’m not much quite sure as my leg won’t be choppedoff while my bodaboda, which might have been helping me in this time, was also badly damaged,” he said. What this reporter observed at MOI is the way the mushrooming bodaboda industry has been affecting the nation’s manpower because all victims were under 40 years. This remains a serious challenge in Tanzania despite the Police Force-Traffic Unit statistics showing a slight decrease of motorcycle crashes, from 876 (2018) to 567 last year. There was also a decrease in bodaboda-related deaths from 366 to 316 as well as injuries from 694 to 469.