BUSINESSMAN, Mbezi Mkomwa, has lost demands of 850m/- as compensation for being airlifted to either India or St Thomas England, for medical treatment. He is suffering from chronic tuberculosis he allegedly encountered, while serving three-year-jail term for economic sabotage between 1983 and 1986. This follows the decision of the Court of Appeal given by Justices Augustine Mwarija, Winfrida Korosso and Barke Sahel to nullify the High Court proceedings conducted without jurisdiction as the suit lodged for the reliefs sought was time barred and subsequently set aside the judgment given thereafter. “We find that the trial court erred in failing to find that the suit was time barred. In the circumstances, we invoke the Court's revisional jurisdiction under section 4 (2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act and hereby quash the ruling of the High Court dated December 12, 2014," they declared. The justices added, "Consequently, the proceedings which were conducted without jurisdiction are also hereby quashed and the resultant judgment is hereby set aside." They noted that the cause of action accrued on May 22, 1984 and the suit was filed on December 3, 2013 after a period of over 29 years. According to the justices, under item 6 of the Schedule to the Law of Limitation Act, the suit should have been filed within three years from the date, when the cause of action arose from the appellant's imprisonment following his trial for the offence which was preferred under the Economic Sabotage Act. They pointed out that under section 3 of the Law of Limitation Act, when a suit is filed out of the prescribed time of limitation, the court does not have an option but to dismiss such suit. During hearing of the appeal, the justices had invited the appellant to address the court on whether the High Court had right in proceeding determining the suit without holding that the same was barred by the time limitation. When the appellant was called upon to respond to the issues, he un-hesitantly conceded that by filing his suit on December 3, 2013, while the imprisonment complained of was meted out on May 22, 1984, he did so out of time. He was alive that the limitation period for a suit founded on tort is three years, thus conceded that, even if the time taken by him to attempt to obtain redress from government out of court is to be considered, that initiative started in 1990 after the period of over three years from the date of his imprisonment. The cause giving rise to the appeal dates back over 36 years ago. In 1983 the appellant was charged before Bukoba Resident Magistrates Court of unlawful possession of properties suspected to have been stolen, an economic sabotage offence under the Economic Sabotage (Special Provisions) Act. According to the record of appeal, on August 8, 1983 at about 6:00 a.m. at Bukoba port area, the appellant was stopped by a Police Officer and upon being searched in his handbag, a total of 511 bottles of two different types of medicines were found. When he was asked whether he had a permit authorizing him to possess the drugs, he could not produce any. He was charged and tried before the then Economic Sabotage Tribunal which found him guilty of the offence. The Tribunal found that the appellant's explanation that the bag in which the bottles of medicines were found, belonged to another person was a mere attempt to extricate himself. Following his conviction, he was sentenced to nine years' imprisonment. However, the appellant served three years in prison as in 1986; he was released following the President's pardon. After his release from prison, in 1990, he took the initiative of writing letters to the government authorities asking for compensation. According to him, such compensation was by order of the President, payable to the victims of the Economic Sabotage cases. The government authorities he wrote include the Principal Secretaries of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. He also asked to be sent for treatment abroad on account that he was infected with Tuberculosis Adenatis disease while in prison. He complained that despite being treated, the disease used to recur and whenever that happened, it took him a long time to recover. As from 1990, the appellant kept on corresponding with the government and when his efforts finally ended up in futility, on December 3, 2013 he filed a suit in the High Court of Tanzania at Dar es Salaam and complained that he was unlawfully arrested, charged and convicted. He, thus sought a number of reliefs, including declaration that he was unlawfully imprisoned and entitled to compensation as declared by President Mwinyi in 1986 and be paid general damages to the tune of 850m/-for unlawful imprisonment. The appellant further sought for an order of being taken to India or St Thomas, England for treatment of the chronic tuberculosis. The High Court dismissed the suit despite rejecting an objection by the State that such suit was time barred. It was at that point when the appellant approached the Court of Appeal.