THE Tanzania women national U-17 team that beat their Ugandan counterparts by 2 -1 on Sunday deserves a pat on the back. Nothing excited me about our girls’ victory in Uganda more than the match report that showed, clearly, why this team is likely to be THE TEAM that may finally bring honours to this victory starved nation. Starting from the match report, despite going down by one goal in the first half, our girls not only fought back, but they were described even by their own opponents as a team that had kept their hosts on their toes throughout the match. Now that does not only reflect the team’s character, but also shows the kind of team these girls are. I’m not surprised by the kind of performance our girls are putting up. This reflects the kind of training the team has been going through since they started training from their tender age. And this is what I have repeatedly stressed in my sports columns; The importance of engaging our children, especially those who are in love with soccer, in soccer academy. Simply put, our girls would not have played the way they did, if they had not started to learn soccer from tender age. For instance, in the match report crafted by the media and carried by the ‘Daily News’, our girls were described by the sports reporter as having pressed their hosts from the start to the end of the match. Now this is a great development that even our senior national soccer team, Taifa Stars, has failed to attain what these girls are doing. And, we all know the main reason for that, because of the kind of training our senior players went through, mostly from the streets. Soccer being what it is these days, it is very scientific. If your players have not had training in the game’s basics, your team is very much unlikely to perform, competitively, against the best in the world. The kind of success our girls are going through just goes to show that a team that has gone through basics in the game will never let you down. Therefore, let us not waste time in witchcraft, for that will never take us anywhere. The best witchcraft in soccer lies in getting our players through the motion of basics in the game. As I have had occasion to note in the past, these includes, among others, getting our players, from tender age, on how to use both legs, how to control and protect the ball, what to do when you don’t have the ball and how to protect one’s goal when dead balls are supposed to be directed towards your goal. As you may have noted from the foregoing, the few things I have touched on above, are very basic things Yet when our Taifa Stars lose their matches in international competitions, you would note that it is always when they fail to deal with some of the basics I have touched on above. We always concede goals, and more often than not, very early in the match because of the same problem, lack of soccer basics. That is not all. When our senior team concedes a goal or two, they are incapable of getting back to the game. What is perhaps more interesting is that, even when we score first, be it at club or national team level, we are incapable of protecting and enhancing the edge we have established over our opponents. And that points to nothing, but our lack of soccer basics. As long as our opponents have the ball, we always end up conceding goals. We easily lose balls because we are incapable of protecting them. Now let me get to a player we are all very much attached to, Mbwana Samatta. This is a player who is not only very experienced, but he also has his own share of soccer academy during his young age. If we have been watching Samatta, carefully, since he started playing for his new team, Aston Villa, you will have noted one important thing. Although he has not been getting a fair share of passes from his colleagues, for a variety of reasons I would not like to touch on, but he has hardly failed to protect his balls. Whenever Samatta has the ball, he has always succeeded in passing the ball to his colleagues. And this includes the match his club played against Manchester City on Sunday. Samatta managed only to protect his ball whenever he had, but was also successful in passing all his balls to his colleagues. But Samatta has succeeded in doing what he is doing not because he is smarter, but because he went through soccer academy during his childhood.