THE World Health Organisation (WHO) has declined to describe novel coronavirus as a pandemic disease despite the fact that it has already met the threshold of being declared as such. The UN health agency appears to be hesitant out of fear that the labelling might end up creating further tension in the world. But the correct or wrong labelling does not defeat the fact that the world’s economy is in turmoil already and that agriculture sector is nothing but its biggest culprit. Tanzania like many other developing countries depends on agriculture as the mainstay of her population and a leading foreign exchange earner. And because we are net importers, foreign currency is essential in paying for those imports. Now, Tanzania trades with a lot countries in the world; From India, U.S.A, Switzerland, South Africa to China. Of all the countries, China stands out as the leading supplier of our imports followed by India and United Arab Emirates. As per 2018 imports statistics, China led the pack by supplying Tanzania goods worth 1.8 billion US dollars, followed by India’s 1.2 billion US dollars and UAE’s 870.9 million US dollars. China does not control Tanzania’s market alone, it even does the same on the U.S.A by supplying goods worth 563.2 billion US dollars, higher than any other country in the world. So those who name China as the workshop of the world are not far from reality. Coronavirus has ravaged all the continents with an exception to Antarctica. It is in China, however, that it was first reported on December 31, 2019, in Wuhan city. To date, there are more than 80,700 case and 3,119 deaths of COVID-19, higher than any other country on earth. This has resulted in to China’s government decision to tank a number of industrial activities while ordering some other companies’ workers to stop coming to office and work from home. Since employees are the drivers of production, many factories have been negatively impacted. This stands to reduce the importation of raw goods from countries like Tanzania and inflate the prices of exports thereof. Interestingly, over the past five years, China has emerged as the major importer of raw sesame from Tanzania. This is to say, sesame sub-sector’s booming is a result of sustained importation of China. Other produce like dry beans, pigeon pea, green grams, jute textiles, tobacco and cotton, have been finding safe landing for over a decade. Majority of these are for domestic consumption and little for re-exportation. What this COVID-19 entails is rather shocking to the core. Factories which processes these produce for final consumption are now working under capacity, if at all not under complete closure. Given the perishability nature of these products, buying with an intention of storing for long time is risky and expensive. That means, Chinese importers will have to cut down their import tonnage as they wait to see if the situation will stabilize. Investors of these companies who hails from around the world have already started selling their shares and taking out their money. Last week’s stock markets were in their feet again; Dow Jones drop by 1percent, S&P fell 1.7percent and the sprawling Nasdaq lost 1.9percent. This will eventually reduce the financial muscles of the companies. If the situation persists for about three months or so, much of our products will face the unprecedented market crash. Sadly, the biggest losers will be Tanzanian farmers and banks that commercially lends immensely to our exporting companies. The only thing that will save us from this abyss is by selling them finished goods that needs not to go through further processing. That is, changing the current trading equation from selling raw commodities to exporting finished goods. This will mean quickening implementation of the government’s Blueprint recommendations by constantly involving the real players in the sector. If the local processing capacity will increase, it is certain that we will not only easily reach the oversea markets, but will be able to saturate our local market with our home made goods, and eventually save our foreign currency by reducing imports. Equally important, proper welfare scheme for export– oriented produce has to be developed so that in the time as such as these, public agencies like National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) will be financially capacitated to buy the produce in glut, for farmers not to get the total loss because somehow the government has got their back. By and large, the same zeal that has been ushered in by the government in cautioning Tanzanians against the ‘pandemic’ has to increase, because it is only with a healthy populace can a country experience an economic development. And the farmers that forms the backbone of this have to be taken care of extensively.