TANZANIA Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) through Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) has injected at least 4.5bn/- in support of a program on identification and promotion of innovation in the country. The five-year (2016-2020) initiative, has seen the establishment of 15 innovation and production clusters in different regions within Tanzania mainland and in the Isles. Speaking on the sidelines of the on-going National Week for Science and Technology Innovation Competition in the capital city, COSTECH’s Information Specialist, Deusidedith Leonard, said the program’s vision was to inspire more Tanzanians to become innovative, in joint efforts to spur industrial development across the country. “Through the program, we have so far managed to establish 15 innovations -production clusters in different categories, ranging from tailoring, livestock keeping, agriculture and fishing and many others,” he noted. Moreover, he named Singida, Morogoro, Manyara, Arusha and Kilimanjaro among the regions where the said clusters had been initiated, apart from the Isles. “In Dodoma we have established a major grapes cluster, in Morogoro a tailoring cluster, while in Singida there’s a giant sunflower production cluster,” he expressed. Speaking at the occasion, COSTECH’s Director General (DG), Dr. Amos Nungu, said the mission behind the clusters was to identify and promote key innovations in the country, with an eye to assist small-scale entrepreneurs. Dr Nungu added that, throughout the program, the beneficiaries were receiving relevant training, as well as capital to assist them start key production clusters as per their areas of production. “We in COSTECH, as a prime driver of science, technology and innovation for sustainable development in Tanzania, have decided to embark on the innovation and cluster program in a bid to foster knowledge based economy through promotion, technology development for economic growth, as well as attaining social wellbeing and competitiveness in Tanzania,” he observed.