THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has suspended from duty two senior officers, including Tanga Regional Bureau Chief, Christopher Mariba, for their alleged involvement in bribery transactions. Acting PCCB Director General, Brigadier General John Mbungo, named the other suspended senior official as Hilton Njau, who was the Chief Investigator of the Bureau in the region. In a statement issued in Dar es Salaam on Friday, Brigadier General Mbungo stated that the two have been suspended pending investigations into claims where they are accused of soliciting and receiving bribe from a suspect who was being investigated by the Bureau. “This offence is contrary to the provision of section 15 of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act No. 11 of 2007,” the acting Director General stated in a statement. In order to ensure that the Bureau is not tainted, Brig. General Mbungo stated that there was an internal policy with the PCCB of not tolerating any employee suspected of engaging in corrupt practices. “Thus, on this basis, these employees have been suspended from today (March 20, 2020) pending further investigations against them, and when the investigation is completed, appropriate legal action will be taken,” he explained. According to him, the Bureau is responsible for leading the fight against corruption in the country, a responsibility given to them in accordance with the PCCB Act No. 11 of 2007. He stated, therefore that the staff of PCCB must have the highest integrity and professionalism at all times as they fulfill their critical responsibilities for the future of development and well-being of the nation. Brig. General Mbungo revealed in the statement that he appointed with effective yesterday Dr Sharifa Bungala as acting Bureau Chief of the Region. Brigadier General Mbungo is on record assuring that PCCB was strong and will continue exposing and dealing with corrupt elements in accordance with the law, in particular, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act No. 11 of 2007 regardless of their status in the society.