PRESSURE is mounting among Simba and Young Africans supporters countrywide, with just hours left before the giants meet in an eagerly awaited ‘Dar derby’ at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Defending champions and runaway leaders, Simba with 68 points from 26 outings, would like to win the derby to close in on title, while third placed Yanga with 47 points from 24 matches will be battling for bragging rights and keep their slight title hope alive. Going into the match tomorrow, Yanga players have been promised a 200m/-reward for a win, while Simba have opted to keep their cards on the chest. Yanga have vowed to excite the visiting Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) president Ahmad Ahmad, who is expected to jet in today for a three day official tour of the country. The CAF boss is set to be the guest of honor during the traditional derby clash from 5:00 pm. He is going to be the first high profile CAF official to witness probably the biggest derby match in the East and Central Africa bloc, which usually attract the attention of many people within and outside the country. Addressing members of the media here, Yanga Mobilisation Officer, Antonio Nugaz insisted that without any intimidation and worry, they are going to make the CAF boss happy bearing in mind that he has authority of all football activities on the continent. “We want to assure him (Ahmad) that the team is ready to display good football worth watching and that he is going to be amazed by what he is going to see,” he said. Nugaz further said he talked with the team’s Head Coach, Luc Eymael, saying he has promised to use a different approach he has never used in other league matches aimed at silencing Simba. He said the coach respect Simba a lot for their massive football display but on Sunday (tomorrow), everyone who is going to descend at the 60,000 capacity stadium will be satisfied with the competitive football to be exhibited by the hosts. Moreover, Nugaz disclosed that the club has put aside 200m/-as a motivation factor to the players to play lungs out to silence their longtime traditional rivals. On his part, Simba Communication Officer, Haji Manara urged the team’s fans to come in their big number regardless that all the gate entry proceeds will be pocketed by Yanga. “We are a big club now such that we do not depend on entry charges to run our affairs. I talked to the captain (John Bocco), who insisted that many supporters should come to give them deserved morale,” Manara said. He then revealed that his notion to urge Simba fans to remain mum prior to the big match simply meant that they will talk on the pitch and not off the playing arena. Both teams go into the clash with winning mentality after doing well in their past league battles as Yanga smashed Mbao FC 2-0, while Simba beat Azam FC 3-2 in a closely fought encounter played at the National Stadium in the city. In a related development, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo disclosed that while in the country, aside from blessing the derby match, CAF President Ahmad Ahmad is going to hold talks with football partners in the country on how the game is developing. “It is a very essential tour for us as far as football is concerned since he is set to meet government officials to assess the entire issue of football development which is critical for our nation,” Ndimbo said.