TANZANIA is well set now to strengthen its place among the world’s mineral giants once production of rare elements lately discovered in Songwe Region. The rare elements namely neodymium and praseodymium in addition to tin and others in the same group are described to be routinely used in the manufacture of high-tech electric cars and various other high-tech products increasingly becoming a household name in the technology advancement galaxy. Amidst high-tech raw materials suppliers, Tanzania is in the cards to become next major producer of rare earth spanning from its reserves. For instance, Tin certificate to licence Tanzania to enter global tin market that for long time has been overwhelmed by critics is an achievement that can’t be underestimated. However, one thing distresses my mind is where are robust execution plans to actualise industrial minerals? Tanzania to be in a position to seize market share, there is a need to have an execution strategy that would go hand in hand with market hipper that in my opinion signals commercial deals are highly competitive or else, delays and prolonged sanctioning and approvals processes might be a bottleneck to seize evolving high-tech raw material market opportunities. Rare earth that comprise of tin are used in the high-tech technologies and emerging renewable energy technologies such as wind turbines, batteries, catalysts and electric cars to mention a few. Whereas these raw materials are highly demanded, their accessibility has been suffering what can be termed as a transitory drop mainly due to quotas being enforced by the know off-takers on export and decisively action taken against illegal mining operations sometimes linked to energise conflicts in war zone areas. In business setting, where there are challenges, there are always opportunities and to seize such opportunities, there is a need for an execution and entry plan. As far as Tanzania is concerned, where is an implementation plan to actualise industrial mineral deposits found in Tanzania? Sometime get muddled as to why it took such a long-time to certification processes to secure a license to export tin while it is clear our tin isn’t coming from a region in conflict. While length and the processes taken to acquire export clearance for tin isn’t a subject of my discussion today, I am of the opinion time has to come to stop doing businesses as usual overwhelmed with unfounded excuses that aren’t doing any good to this nation. It is not my intention to be bold but, let us call a spade a spade. We always hear things like Tanzania lack necessary technical skills and knowledge, or we have limited research and development initiatives, or infrastructure isn’t sufficient, or there aren’t enough incentives to encourage local and FDIs or environmental issues and above all poor linkage between the government and organs as main justifications as to why the sector hasn’t attained its full exploration capacity. When I hear such justifications, one thing always came into my mind is that are we having wrong people at right position? Or if these are the main obstacles where is the plan to deal with these issues, a plan that can be monitored to gauge progress made over time? With proper robust execution plan, attached to deliverables with arrangement with potential financiers in place at the same time involving stakeholders that can bring value (i.e. for this case STAMICO, TIRDO, DFI) into actualisation of these resources, Tanzania could be ready-stead to seize the high-tech raw material market competitively. Inclinations of having stakeholders for the sake of their attendance in technical and financial planning process sometimes doesn’t add value instead wreck the courses. For instance, accessing for capital for financing actualisation of tin and its benefaction activities if left to TIRDO, STAMICO, GST and handful of DFIs experts, breakthrough could easily be seen when truly work on government behalf. This is what Tanzania need if moving forward is our shared goal. Tin is amongst key ingredient for high-tech manufacturing industries comprising parts and components in mobile phones, laser equipment, scanners used at airports, mining, ports, hospitals and newer generation of chips used in computers and other electronic gadgets. Even though, geologically Tanzania is relatively maintained to be abundant of rare metals in the earth’s crust, learning from Tanzania mineral and mining conference, held at JNICC on 22nd-23rd February 2020, in Dar es Salaam, there are few rich mineral deposits implying that timely actualisation could revolutionise Tanzania wealth. Mineral market performance and revenue collection attained so far is cheering but more can be done. If Tanzania could advantageously plan, and depart from “talking-talking syndrome” and engage into for example actualising rare earth elements such as tin resource to meet evergrowing technological mineral market demand driven by the ever-growing market needs, the sky in terms of building revenue reserves for the nation could be the limit. If Tanzania can swing just to rare earth elements market demand timely, Tanzania could earn millions of dollars that could relief it from depend on futile expensive loans or bank credits or grants that from time to time are fond of stringent terms and conditions likely to submerge county’s future freedom as nation. The growing demand for industrial and technological mineral and future forecast projection in my opinion provide a good future for Tanzania to be part of strategic players in industrial and technological minerals. Perhaps knowing where these minerals are used could indicate how potential Tanzania needs to be in the supplying chain. Available investigation and published reports show that some of the largest uses of rare earths are in catalysts 20 per cent; rare earth magnets 21 per cent; alloys 18 per cent; powder production 12 per cent; and phosphors 7 per cent. Catalyst uses for those who might not be cognizant are for both industrial and auto catalysts. Application of rare earth elements and industrial/technological minerals found in Tanzania as highlighted by Prof. Mtambo, on his submission at Tanzania mineral and mining investment conference 2020 held in Dar es salaam, are according to the literature, critical for an array of uses, primarily for visual display in screens and low energy lighting. This uses and other high-tech areas in my view is a likely growth area and will place pressure mainly rare earth suppliers. There is current an extensive use of rare earth minerals in wind turbines, the auto industry i.e. electric and hybrid cars and defence industry i.e. missile guidance systems and uses for fibre optical amplifiers in high speed optical communication networks and improving the efficiency of solar energy conversion in converting low energy photons into higher energy photons by increasing the wavelength i.e., infrared photons to visible. Viewed in totality, these opportunity will not only be for high-tech equipment manufacturing but also emerging wind energy and electric vehicles considered as part of the solution for a more sustainable future as green technology and economy is concern. Present technologies for example electric vehicles and wind turbines rely heavily on tin, dysprosium, and neodymium for rare-earth magnets that are key component and the good thing is all are found in Tanzania. Even though Tanzania is endowed with diverse types of minerals resources ranging from gold, iron ore, nickel, graphite, kaolin, base metal, rare earth metals, and various gemstones and industrial minerals etc. there is inadequate information in the open literature on the current status on how commercially Tanzania could make the most of returns along these value chain. There are serious question that need answers should we as nation desire to strengthening Tanzanian mining sector and fully benefit from it. One, how competitive we are and are there robust plans with time line for value addition? Two, subsequent tin certificate to export permit, are we ready to access market of processed tin competitively? To what extent are we ready to play market platforms overriding the sector? Envisaging longtern plan is in my judgment a good idea, but does plans been designed appropriately to ensure business deals are competitively secured with loyalty in penning down contracts? Understanding which stakeholders are vital is critical to help actualise development of these technological or industrial minerals in Tanzania. To what extent stakeholders such as STAMICO, TIRDO, DFIs, GST, TANESCO and TRC has been tasked to come up with infrastructure solutions and accessing to capital for investing given these stakeholders in my opinion are critical ones? Each of these stakeholders has a role to play and not bringing them together it might be tricky to actualise expected outcome. I stand to be rectified, in Tanzania, is policy informing and guiding business conduct, or business bearings and conducts are theoretical supposed to inform policy? Amidst this debate, it is important to be aware that increasing demand for rare earths in a range of applications implies that the rare earth market is in the cards to be demand-driven for some time to come, an upright signal for policy action.