A second surgery for a disabled pupil at Salvation Army Matumaini Primary School in Dar es Salaam, Aloyce Kazimoto is over and surgeons at Muhimbili Orthopedic Institute (MOI) have confirmed it was successful. Aloyce, a class five pupil was last month reported by the ‘Daily News’ on how doctors canceled the amputation of his left leg after observing that it was among the most supportive organ for his extra-curricular activities, mostly entrepreneurship related doings at the school. MOI specialist, Dr Bryson Mcharo said he could not say if the operation would be final but he could confirm he would be able to put on a shoe once the wound heals. Aloyce was born without a right leg and the left one curved towards back, looking as it was half. He also had no right palm while the left one being incomplete. The boy had already been given the artificial right leg, while rehabilitations of the left one were on progress. He will soon be able to put on a shoe on his rehabilitated leg and let it exactly match with the right (artificial) one, said Dr Mcharo. He stressed that Aloyce, who most of the time is toddling on the wheel-chair, after the wound recovery in the soonest to come, will able to walk at a reasonable/normal speed without a wheel-chair. His teachers and other Matumaini Primary School staff described Aloyce as best pupil in both class and extra-curricular activities, mostly creating hand bags for women. He is eager to learn new things every day regardless difficulties he faces in terms of his physical disability. Due to lack of fingers on his left palm, when making handbags he usually struggles to use a swelling on his right arm to connect the thread with needle while the rehabilitated leg holds other (manufacturing) materials. That is why MOI doctors cancelled the amputation as the move could trigger difficulties or even completely made him to quit the business, said the school physiotherapist, Mr Daniel Bwegule. Mr Bwegule appraised MOI and other donors for rehabilitation support to Aloyce, saying the move will make him fully engaged in handcrafts businesses which have been conducted in the school workshop. “Apart from class activities, the school also encourages entrepreneurship activities to impart children with self-employment spirit in their future. They have different talents, and the school is really much concerned to develop them, for the sake of building the best future of these children,” he said. Aloyce’s mother, Ms Loswita Mhagama supported the school staffs’ motion, saying the son is really a hardworking child, despite his disabilities. During school holidays, Aloyce helps his mother in some activities which include selling vegetables. He always pities her mother who struggled alone to support him after her husband ran away when Aloyce was born. “My husband ran away calling my son a curse and has not returned. I’m mother of four children. Taking care of the family isn’t an easy task because my vegetable vending business gives me a very minimal profit,” she said. “What puzzles and pains me a lot is how the situation will be after Aloyce has completed his primary school studies while my ability to support his further education is too little. I currently struggle to construct a single-brick room after my current muddy-shelter is affected every rainy season,” she said. She is asking for support from Good Samaritans to help her put a roof in a single room she is building.