LOCAL children’s educator and entertainer, Ubongo Kids and Akili and Me series have responded to the government’s directive on children remaining at home to self-quarantine against coronavirus outbreak by offering them more free educative programmes. Making the revelation in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, Ubongo’s Chief Product Officer, Christina Bwana further said that they have launched several digital learning platforms as a library where different ages of children would be reached. “Ubongo toolkits is offering a full library of free educontent for kids and caregiv ers, covering a wide stream of topics in local context, soon to be adapted in more African languages,” she added. She further said that parents, teachers, and caregivers as well as children are encouraged to make use of the online platform, assisted by television and radio programmes to air. “We are working hard as partners in education in the community by also responding to this situation (coronavirus spread) in the best way, especially by disseminating contents, which will promote safe measures and practices at home,” said the Chief Product Officer. However, according to UNESCO monitoring, over 130 countries have implemented nationwide schools’ closures, impacting on over 80 per cent of the world students’ population. In the event, several other countries have implemented their localised measures, where millions of additional learners will experience education disruption. In Tanzania, Akili and Me currently airs on TBC 1 on Saturday and Sunday mornings at 9 am, every Saturdays on EATV at 6:30 am. “We officially launched our Ubongo Toolkits platform this month and we are working to popularise it with additional contents and guidance for caregivers to use at home and support further learning in the children population,” she said. “We are offering free of charge our library of TV and radio edutainment contents to any broadcasters and partner(s), who would then share them with the communities in need…this includes for public service and educative videos to support the health and hygiene systems. “We are also working on mapping our content and other learning resources such as e-books, apps and worksheets alongside the education curriculums from preprimary to grade 7 in several African countries, especially this time when schools have been closed as a result of coronavirus spread. “Our priority is focusing on Tanzania, Kenya, and Rwanda, and this will fill the vacuum missed as a result of missing class lessons, with relevant education to the kids,” Ms Bwana pointed out. Ubongo Toolkits is a large library of quality, African- made early learning materials and educative resources for kids aged 0 - 14 and caregivers, which covers various topics, from early numeracy, pre-literacy, and social and emotional skills to engineering, science, and technology. The learning materials are currently available in Kiswahili, English, and further translated into Kinyarwanda, Hausa, Kikuyu, Luo, and Chichewa. The toolkits serve as a teaching aid for the purpose of improving quality filled with instructions, visual and audio learning for schools and homes. In the long-term, Ubongo plans to create a more health-related content, which will support public awareness around hygiene and infectious disease prevention.