MZUMBE University Dar es Salaam Campus will keep on assisting youth, particularly women, with skills and training to enable them run sustainable economic activities in the country. That was said by the institution’s Short Courses and Consultancy Services Head of Department, Dr Faisal Issa, on behalf of the Principal, Prof Honest Ngowi, while marking International Women’s Day in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. He said that since 2016 academic year to 2019, the institution has raised the number of female students to 49 percent against 51 percent being for their male counterparts in comparison to other local Universities, thus have raised women level of education, and in turn empower them to take part in the country’s development. He said that as an institution, they feel tasked to assist the government to fight poverty and ignorance by educating the masses through training on income generating activities, which focus mostly on women and the youth. Dr Issa noted that as the country gears for the general elections, it is important to educate women to vie for leadership and political posts, saying: “But it must start from reminding them that they are capable as leaders of tomorrow.” Facilitating a training for girls from Hananasif Secondary School in the city, who attended the occasion, Mzumbe University Dar es Salaam Campus College Senior Lecturer, Dr Godbertha Kinyondo, advised them to learn from capable successful women as their role models. “Look at our Vice-President Mama Samia Suluhu at the State House, a woman, but leading because of merit in leadership, you should also aspire for that in the future. “You should shun corruption and being tricked to believe that a woman must offer sex in return for a job or leadership post. The government is with you that is why there are Special Seats for women in Parliament and several other opportunities. She observed that special seats must have term limit so that more women are able to participate in decision-making process. She advised students to seek funding to begin career in business by starting in the informal sector. “You should know that in each and every local government council’s revenues collected, there is a 10 percent budget that is meant for women, youth and the disabled to grow.” The don further encouraged the womenfolk ahead of the 8th March International Women’s Day to take challenges they face as opportunities to build their character to become strong. In a related development, Dr Kinyondo advised the students to develop a culture of saving money regardless of the amount they have. She also advised them to use social media for the learning purposes and information seeking. “If you have an innovative idea, you can use the social media to raise fund for what she termed ‘crowd funding” whereby a person can post an idea to attract funders with the same interest. “This government is championing industrial drive and needs workforce with science skills… it is now upon you to study science subjects in the free education and become innovative,” she said. She also reminded participants that we live now in an era of the fourth industrial revolution, in which technology and innovation will lead to greater use of Artificial Intelligence and robotics in business. Commenting, a Mzumbe University Dar es Salaam Campus College Master student, Yusuph Z uberi reminded the girls to shun attempts of being seduced by men enticing them with gifts and related goodies. On her part, Vicensia Fuko, a facilitator advised the girls to concentrate on studies, which would guarantee them long benefits.