THE Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAA) in Dar es Salaam is running a whole week free education and consultancy services to the public and mostly traders on how to improve in business. Leading a team of Accountants, Auditors as well as other professionals in different fields from various sectors as facilitators, Peter Mwambuja said the aim was to educate the public on how to start business activities, register, keep records and pay taxes without one brushing shoulders with the government. Mr Mwambuja, who is also TAA’s Chairperson, said that the free services would promote public confidence in their services as they contribute in national development. “During these occasions, the public become informed that membership of the TAA is opened to all professional and semi-professional accountants, accounting and auditing firms, accountancy training and institutions, students’ associations and professional associations within the country,” he added. Started on Monday, the team also visited Amana Hospital in the city where they assisted the institution with some drugs in TAA plough back to the society. On Tuesday, they pitched a camp at Machinga Complex in the city, where they met various petty traders, entrepreneurs and individual mechanics running garages around. One of the traders, Michael Kibrasha said that for several years he has been in the business of selling water and soft drinks in a kiosk, and he never knew the importance of record keeping and who an Accountant is, but with the education, he promised to register his business and pay local taxes. One of the stakeholders as a facilitator, Bernard Mawala from Enson Africa, an organisation that specialises on economic solutions and provide hands-on support to organisations also in audit, tax, accounting and payroll said that the weeklong free service would enlighten the traders on the importance of business registration as legal activities. Another Account from Information Development Services, Zakia Said noted that the free services they were providing would also be a forum to address some challenges traders meet in businesses. He appealed to them to exploit such forums, because at the end of the day, they are solely offering solutions to their teething problems in businesses. “Tax payments, auditing and reporting are basic things a trader ought to know and play with while running a business. “Many traders still do not keep records and not educated on tax payments, which in turn make majority to survive in business by chance and fate.