INDIA-Tanzania business relations have received yet another boost as an Indian investor— Purandare Industries (T), Ltd plans to establish a megasugar processing factory in the country’s capital, Dodoma. According to the company’s Managing Director, Satish Purandare, operations at the factory which will have the capacity to produce 5,000 tonnes of sugar per year are expected to kick off in June 2021. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’, Mr Purandare said the first sugar industry in the country’s capital will be located at Dabalo Ward in Chamwino District—80 kilomtres from the city centre, and that his company expects to enter into a contract with farmers within the district to grow sugar cane for the factory’s raw materials. “I am happy that the government under president John Magufuli has been giving me a lot of collaboration, and at this stage we are just waiting for all legal documents which are at the final stage of delivery by different government entities,’’ he said. According to him, the construction of a 20,000 acres factory is expected to kick off in June this year, and that the operations are expected to kick off in June next year. The new investment comes almost four years since President John Magufuli invited more Indian investors to come and set up businesses in the country. The call was made at the State House in Dar es Salaam when Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the country in July 2016. At a media briefing—back then, Dr Magufuli and the Indian leader agreed to deepen the India-Tanzania ties in business, agriculture, food security, trade, natural gas and other vital sectors. In an interview, Mr Purandare was optimistic that the investment will play a pivotal role in improving the economic sphere in Chamwino District. “Despite providing permanent jobs for hundreds of farmers, the plant will also stimulate different socioeconomic activities in the district and the region at large,” he said, adding: “I want to see Tanzanians becoming investors in their nation.’’ According to the company’s MD, Purandare Industries (T) Limited intends to provide technology support and inputs to out grower farmers for sugar cane production and also add value to the cane produced. He said that Dabalo sugar which will be produced at the hightech factory will carry its brand name ‘Sukari Halisi’. The new factory comes as good news as it will help to reduce sugar deficit in the country. According to Mr Purandare, his company was equally planning for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes in Chamwino District, especially on education and health care.