THE government has called for a collective action towards transforming the communication sector that would further boost efforts in improving gross domestic product. Deputy Minister for Transport, Works and Communication Eng Atashasta Nditiye told a workers’ Union Council here that the communication sector is an integral part of the country’s development, though its contribution has not been fully tapped. “We all to want work diligently and efficiently in order to deliver best service…we want the communication sector to be the mainstay of the country’s economy. “All the State and private entities depend on the communication services...as policymakers, hence we must make sure that we support the expansion of the sector to actively contribute in the economy,” he said. Tanzania’s economy has been growing slightly below seven percent, with the communication industry being ranked fifth, but only to contribute about 13 per cent in the total gross domestic product (GDP) in 2017/18. Eng Nditiye believes that effective use of information communication technology (ICT) experts in innovation and creative arts would usher in mega impacts in the economic development in the country. Explaining, the Deputy Minister asked the council to help the ministry to realize its intended goals, by ensuring that it oversees full operations of the ministry. He said the plan can only be possible should all staff work together as a team and meet individual obligation, which collectively build a common agenda. Speaking on behalf of Dr Leonard Chamuriho the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Communication Sector, Kitolina Kippa said the council’s meeting was scheduled to receive and review performance report of the area in the 2019/20 financial year. The report, according to Kippa includes the planned construction of ICT infrastructures and service providers to the public and the government entities to easy time and efficiency. “We also have a new plan to implement the ministry’s duties during the 2020/21financial year. We also considered providing public awareness especially on HIV, nutrition, communicable diseases, but we urge the public to cooperate,” he said. Commenting, the ministry’s Communication Division Chairperson, Ms Grace Chalila, urged the staff to increase the budget allocation to the sector as a catalyst to support it to actively contribute efficiently in the country’s GDP. “We have seen an increase us of ICT and telecommunication services including e-payments, e-health and eeducation,” she noted.