THE invasion of the deadly Covid-19 virus simply referred to as Coronavirus has brought competitive sports at home and abroad to a halt. Just like many other countries the world over, Tanzania has closed all schools from kindergarten to university level, all in order to curb the spread of the deadly virus which has already claimed thousands of lives all over the world. Following the suspension of competitive sports that includes the Africa Nations Championships (CHAN), Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifications and preparations for the forthcoming summer Olympics, sports leaders now need to plan the way forward for the foregoing competitions. Planning means looking for ways of raising funds for financing the foregoing competitions once the deadly disease is conquered. The Chinese government has more or less conquered the disease, and it is hopeful that Europe will also sooner than later do the same thing, given their advanced science technology, especially in the medical field. A statement issued by the Chinese billionaire, Jack Ma, about his decision to provide kits for testing corona virus to all African countries is commendable. After struggling with the disease for over three months, the Chinese government has not only conquered the disease, but they are also poised to help the rest of the mankind in dealing with the disease. The most ravaged by the deadly disease in the world, Italy, is reported to have also sought assistance from the Chinese government. Indeed, only by being armed with such equipment would African countries succeed in conquering the disease. But sports leaders should not rest, during this difficult time. They should instead spend this time in planning the way forward; How our sportsmen and women are going to take on the rest from AFCON to CHAN and from Olympic Games scheduled for Japan to women soccer, Twiga Stars and the youthful Twigalets who have been causing a lot of problems for their counterparts in other parts of Africa. The same thing can be said about sportsmen and women. Yes, they need to adhere to the rules that help in curbing the spread of the deadly disease. But that does not mean that they cannot train, individually, in the morning and along our roads and in deserted sports fields. For the danger of not training is that once the disease is conquered, our sportsmen and women are likely to be unfit for international sports engagement. Apart from running, there are plenty of methods a sportsman or woman can engage in order to keep one’s body physically fit. For instance, working on one’s body fitness that includes push-ups, stretching, weight lifting and general body building from the comfort of one’s home is quite possible. And this is what our sportsmen and women need to involve themselves in. In fact, it is easier for athletes, especially those working for their Olympic qualification times and who are based in regions like Arusha and Kilimanjaro. Athletes living in the countryside, have large expanses of land where they could run and climb mountains and ridges as part of working for their endurance. Indeed, endurance is one of the things, especially for athletes working on their Olympic qualification times for 3,000m steeple chase, 5,000m, 10,000m and marathon. The foregoing events require very high doses of endurance which an athlete can work on, individually, and safely, away from groups of people. If our athletes can work hard, individually, for their personal endurance, they should be able to better their times for medium and long distance running. If the Kenyan javelin champion could conquer both the Africa and the Commonwealth just by learning and practicing after learning the art from YouTube, there is no reason our athletes should fail by doing the same through hard training, individually. What is being frowned upon by authorities in the country in the quest to curb the spread of the deadly virus is getting into groups. But individually, and away from groups, our athletes can train and attain the requisite Olympic qualifying times. The same thing can be said about footballers. Unlike athletes, these are men and women who are engaged in a sports discipline that require team work. But given the requirement demanded by their sports, namely, group work, they cannot, for now, get into team work as that attracts groups. But they can do a lot of ball control, alone, at the backyard of their houses for the whole day. Ball control is crucial in any soccer match and many of our soccer players from club to national level are very much wanting in ball control. Therefore, this enforced suspension of competitive sports provides soccer players with the opportunity of practicing ball control through the use of both legs and the head. In fact, if you look at any sport event, regardless of whether it is a team or individual event, one finds that individuals have massive opportunity of training alone for a very long period of time. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo. co.uk