SALIM Aiyee ended Young Africans celebration mode as he steered revitalised KMC to a 1-0 win over the giants in the Mainland Premier League at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. Yanga were eying to stamp their fourth straight victory in the top flight league as KMC came out fire blazing desperately needing to win to stay out of the relegation zone. Following the results, Yanga remained third on the log with 50 points from 26 outings, while KMC took a slight leap to 16th in the league table with 30 points from 28 matches. Yanga sit massive 21 points behind their traditional rivals Simba SC, who sit top on 71 points from 28 outing and are four points behind second placed Azam FC, who have also played the same number of matches as Simba. Coming fresh after silencing Simba in an energy supping battle at the National Stadium in Dar es Salam on Sunday courtesy of a 1-0 triumph, Yanga were expected to easily sweep past the struggling opponent. However, they were surprised by the level of energy and determination displayed by KMC, who despite having a bumpy ride in the league, they have been troubling big teams this season. Yanga Head Coach Luc Eymael made few changes from the squad which faced Simba last Sunday with Bernard Morrison and left wingback Jaffary Mohamed all rested and were replaced by Patrick Sibomana and Adeyum Saleh respectively. However, Salehe picked a knock in the 23rd minute and was replaced by Ally Mtoni. Neither side took charge of the match in the early stage, but little by little KMC began to create chances. The first one came in the 2nd minute when Kelvin John’s shot narrowly missed the target. Few minutes later, Yanga gained the tempo and Mapinduzi Balama missed an early opportunity to give his side a goal after his header from a corner kick was saved by KMC goalkeeper Jonathan Nahimana. In the 8th minute, KMC threatened again, a cross from Kenny Ally from the right found Hassan Kabunda, who was unable to convert in the area. Kabunda missed a clear chance to break the deadlock in the 26th minute after he was set through inside the box by Aiyee but was sandwiched by goalkeeper Metacha Mnata and right wing back Juma Abdul and couldn’t tap in the ball into the net. After half an hour mark, skipper Papy Tshishimbi attempted an overhead kick in the area but keeper Nahimana was alert to make a superb save. In the second stanza, the two sides made several changes with KMC introducing James Msuva and Emmanuel Mvuyekure for Kabunda and Mohamed Samatta respectively. The changes energised KMC’s striking force and in the 62nd Aiyee squeezed his shot past goalie Mnata after receiving a nice pass from Mvuyekure. After conceding, coach Eymael introduced Congolese striker David Molinga for Sibomana in the 66th minute. Molinga added a bit of thrust upfront, teaming up with Ditram Nchimbi in search for an equaliser but KMC defenders led by Ally Ramadhani and Ismail Gambo stood firm to thwart them. Balama nearly pulled level but Nahimana rushed out of his goal line to deny him and rescued the situation. In the 80th minute Deus Kaseke replaced Feisal Salum. Next up, Yanga will travel to Ruangwa in Lindi region, where they will face fourth placed Namungo FC at the Majaliwa Stadium on Sunday.