IN a bid to address the impact of coronavirus outbreak in the economic sector, the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) has formed a special team that will help to contain the situation. The TPSF Chairperson, Ms Angelina Ngalula said the foundation recognizes the efforts by the government in curbing the virus and that it stands with the public in the war against the deadly disease. “ We recognize the efforts by the government under the leadership of President John Magufuli, Prime Minister Kassium Majaliwa and Minister Ummy Mwalimu, they have set strong strategies for fighting coronavirus,” she said. She added that the government understands the effects of coronavirus in the country’s economy and that TPSF is keen to support the fight against the problem. “We are prepared to support the government in fighting the diseases to ensure there are no negative economic impacts,” she noted. She said the TPSF is set to provide education to the public regarding the virus, especially on its transmission, how to prevent ourselves and control the disease in accordance to the given guidelines by the authorities. She added that the second task is to mobilize the public to get essential resources that are crucial in the fight against coronavirus. “The team had talk with Minister Mwalimu and her deputy, Dr Faustine Ndugulile on the importance equipment which includes masks, sanitizers, protective gowns, ventilalators, ambulance, scanners,” she said. Ms Ngalula added that the third task is to protect Tanzanians employment opportunities. She said TPSF is already in talk with various stakeholders on various strategies that will help to protect majority Tanzanians’ employment by protecting business operations and production. She said TPSF through its special team has already started to support the testing exercise in various economic sectors in the country. “Already some members of TPSF have provided buildings for self-isolation among travelers who arrive in the country from most affected countries,” she noted.