DEFENDING champions Simba SC are ready to get back to winning ways as they entertain Singida United at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. It will be a fight between the Mainland Premier League leaders and the bottom- placed side, who are battling to remain in the top flight football next season but the going seems tough for them. Simba will come out in the match all guns blazing as they will be seeking to recover from their painful 1-0 loss to traditional rivals Young Africans at the same venue last Sunday. The Msimbazi Street lads still sit top of the league table with 68 points from 27 matches, while Yanga moved to third on 50 points from 25 outings. Azam are second on 51 points from 27 matches. For Simba, generally, it has been a good season for them so far with the title still on their sight even though it is not yet over since many games are yet to come and during the title marathon, anything can happen on the way. From their 27 matches, Singida United have managed only two wins, six draws and19 defeats to pocket 12 points and make them among the most prone teams as far as relegation is concerned. To make it worse, Singida United have claimed one point from their previous five back to back league matches. They fought to a 1-1 draw with Alliance FC, lost 2-1 to Tanzania Prisons, 1-0 to Coastal Union, went down 1-0 to Polisi Tanzania before stamping another 1-0 defeat from Ndanda FC. The current points gap between them and Simba is massive 56, meaning that the Singida based side face a big load to carry on their shoulders to ensure that they stay put in the contest next term or else face the relegation jaws. However, as usual, when a team is fighting for league survival, they usually give it all regardless who they are facing hence despite on paper the Reds having an advantage to win the match, it still remain a tricky puzzle for them. Meanwhile, pundits have described the apology statement made by Simba midfielder Clatous Chama to his Yanga counterpart Feisal Salum as a good gesture worth to be encouraged by players. Chama was shown a yellow card in the 32nd minute during the derby clash after spotted having stamped on Feisal with what seemed to be a deliberate action towards his opposite number. In his statement to football fans, Chama said “I want to personally thank all of you for raising concern regarding what happened yesterday (Sunday) in the derby. “Am so sad we lost but I want to ensure you that what happened between me and Faisal was neither personal nor influenced by the derby results. I personally spoke to Feisal and he generously accepted my apology. “In the spirit of ‘Fair Game’ I strongly condemn any sort of violence in football pitches and promise to be a good ambassador for that,” Chama said. The Zambian further wrote on his Instagram page saying “Truly, I have no regret knowing you and liking you brother, in good, you congratulate me and in bad, you have come out in a very good way and condemned my action.’ He continued: “We can be enemies during the 90 minutes but Feisal is my brother and like you have said it, we all depend on soccer. During a match like that, such is likely to happen but I know football and I strongly condemn that. Feisal and I have talked about it and is now water under the bridge.” Reacting to the apology was a popular sports analyst Ally Mayay, who termed Chama statement very positive from a professional player of his caliber. “What he has shown is truly sportsmanship which should be encouraged to all players,” he said. In another development, Simba’s versatile defender Erasto Nyoni will be out for two weeks after picking an ankle injury during the match against Yanga, the club confirmed yesterday.