PREPARATIONS for the upcoming second edition of the National Competition for Science, Technology and Innovation (Makisatu) are in full swing as 583 innovators are set to showcase their innovative works and ideas. Director of Science, Technology and Innovation Department at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Prof Maulilio Kipanyula, said recently that the government is committed to empower local innovators so that their technologies can be of importance within and outside the country. “The Education, Science and Technology Ministry used the funds amounting to 50.55bn/-for 145 projects of 517 researchers in postgraduate courses last year,” he said. Prof Kipanyula explained that the funds were used to finance the projects, including one of developing new maize seedlings, beans, paddy, and sweet potatoes as well as cat urine to chase away rats. He said that the government dished out 750m/- to develop 6 0 innovators who took part in previous competitions, including the one who came up with the idea of making a chopper. “Adam Kinyekire, who came up with the idea to make a helicopter will receive 99m/-in order to set up his own workshop, which will be used to create more innovations,” he said. Prof Kipanyula said the government was determined to recognise innovators from the grassroots level, saying the innovations which will receive support should have an impact in national development. He said the government received 415 applications last year from various categories, saying after sorting them out, 6 0 participants were selected to take part in the competition. “About 18 participants were selected from the 6 0 applications. But the government made the decision to support all the participants,” he said. Prof Kipanyula said that the researcher who came up with the idea to make a chopper had been connected with Nyumbu Corporation in order to see how to develop his idea, saying the funds he had received from the government will see more innovations from his workshop. He added that the innovators are attached to innovation centers and hubs from where they are developed and register for patent rights. He said the government is committed to see that the innovations contribute to the technological advancement as well as drive the industrial economy. For the first time, he said, this year’s competition has included innovators from primary schools, with the ultimate goal being to ensure that no innovation is being left behind.