ATTORNEY General, Prof Adelardus Kilangi warned his officials to honor their obligations as state representatives in handling crucial confidential information and ensure there is no any leakages. He gave the warning here on Friday during the Attorney General (AG) workers council meeting, saying some of the employees are still diverging public confidential information, thus keeping national interests at bay. Prof Kilangi said some of the staff does not observe the rules, laws, guidelines and circular on public confidentiality, warning them to observe the sensitivity of the office or face disciplinary actions. “The AG office handles sensitive issues and documents, the employees need to observe integrity, though some leak unwarranted confidential information,” said Prof Kilangi He insisted on the need for the workers to be guided by labor laws and public servant’s code of conduct, including handling confidential documents. Prof Kilangi (pictured) said they have set out moral goals where their operations will be addressed towards building competence, increasing efficiency and integrity. He told the meeting opened by the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs Minister, Dr Augustine Mahiga that they want to enhance the integration of workers to create positive changes and outlook of the AG office. The AG said for more capacity building to the employees, in November and December last year, they were taken through the public confidentiality information and documents training by the Government Security Office as well as combating and prevention of corruption. He said the office needs 400-state attorneys while currently there are 150, and appealed for training of more whenever government coffers allows. As it is the case with the judiciary where they have induction courses for new magistrates and judges, the AG is finalising the set-up of such institution for state attorneys where they will be molded as per the public attorney code of conduct. “We will soon launch the state attorney institute, we will come to you when the regulations are ready for endorsement” he insisted. As for public awareness, Prof Kilangi said they have registered a journal which will simplify and put legal matters into a language that normal Tanzanians can understand. Opening the meeting, Dr Mahiga wanted them to work around the clock and get rid of poorly drafted contracts which are too costly to the government and stakeholders.