TWO Tanzanians have been brutally murdered in Zambia and their bodies hacked and burnt over alleged witchcraft practices. Besides murdering the duo, the killers also severely wounded another female Tanzanian who was rushed to Kalambo District and admitted to Mwimbi Health Center in Kalambo District for treatment. The Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC), Justine Masonje confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ in a phone interview of the grisly incident. He identified the deceased as Kennedy Chatengwa (52) and Chrispine Nicholaus (50), both from Manbwekenya Ward in Kalambo District bordering the neighbouring Zambia. According to the RPC, the two Tanzanians were among 50 people who were reported to have been killed in Zambia due to superstitious beliefs. “In neighboring Zambia, 50 Zambians and two Tanzanians are reported to have been butchered by irate mob after being accused of terrorizing residents with witchcraft” added the RPC He further explained that Zambian law enforcers have netted scores of suspects linked to the grisly killings. Mr Masonje said the shocking killings occurred on February 28, this year in a Zambian village bordering Tanzania. A cross section of residents, including the Kalambo District Council Chairman, Mr Daudi Sichone, recalled the bad incident to our reporter. They confided to this paper that two Tanzanians have been “butchered” in Zambia, adding that several Tanzanians, including relatives of the murdered people have fled the country fearing for their lives. On Monday, this paper contacted the Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo and Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr Masonje for confirmation of the incident. Mr Wangabo explained that three Tanzanians, among them women went to neighbouring Zambia to visit their relatives Fortunately, one of the female Tanzanians cheated death by a whisker after the attack where she was left severely wounded and was saved by Good Samaritans who rushed her to a health facility at Mwimbi Ward in Kalambo District. Mr Wangabo further said a Zambian who hosted the slain Tanzanians also cheated death after he fled the country and took brief refuge in Tanzania, where he was also treated at Mwimbi Health Center in Kalambo District.