THE High Commission of Canada to Tanzania has affirmed support towards advancing gender equality and empowerment of women and girls. But the Canadian mission says each beneficiary must be willing to fight for gender parity in the country. Ms Sandra Rossiter, the Counsellor of Political, Economic and Public Affairs section at the embassy called upon women and children to work towards unlocking each door blocking them from realising their dreams. “There are so many ways to help a girl child to realise her dream but basically one of the principle ways to one’s failure is by failing to try,” she said during a forum organised by Children Dignity Forum (CDF) in Mpwapwa. “Advancing gender equality is at the heart of our international assistance. All of our development policies and programmes aim to empower women and we implement specific projects to achieve these goals,” she added. The Counsellor believes gender equality is imperative towards the promotion and protection of their human rights but also in speeding up economic and social development in the country. Citing her mother who had passion to become military personnel, she says she faced a wave of discouragement with many saying there were no chances of women in the army. “The time for women to just dream of certain jobs has passed,” she said, demanding women and girls to open doors to attain their dreams. At least 22 per cent of military officers are women and a lot more women are in high ranking government positions. Mpwapwa District Administrative Secretary Ms Sarah Komba lauded CDF’s efforts to increase public awareness especially among the youth to be able to argue constructively and redefine their goals. “We are facing a big challenge for most girls to self-recognise. Some isolate from others especially if they cannot dress well nor have money for French fries and chicken. Girls and women must accept their condition to be able to battle for gender parity,” she said. CDF Project Officer Clara Wisiko explained that the organisation is currently focusing on addressing child violence that include early child pregnancies, forced child marriage, FGM among other gender based violence. She said the forum is supporting girls with empowering knowledge targeting in and out school kids, providing child protection and engagement of youth and men in the promotion of child rights.