In early 2020, the sudden outbreak of novel coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19) hit China and spread around the world. With its rapid spread, wide range of infection and great difficulty in prevention and control, it has become the biggest public health challenge facing the world. At present, the local transmission of the virus in China, mainly in Wuhan city, has been basically stopped. But outside China, the number of infections is increasing at an exponential rate, exceeding 520,000 by 28 March, with Europe being the new epicenter of the epidemic. The situation in Africa has also become increasingly severe, with the numbers of confirmed cases and affected countries reaching 3,924 and 46 respectively as of 28 March. In this arduous battle against COVID-19 pandemic, the commitment of the Chinese Government and its leaders, the dedication and sacrifice of the Chinese people, and the selfless and all-round assistance from China to support other countries’ efforts to combat the pandemic, have demonstrated that China is putting its concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind into practice, and actively offering Chinese wisdom and solution to the greatest global public health challenge since World War II. I. China’s battle against COVID-19 is an outstanding contribution to the building of a community with a shared future for mankind In the fight against COVID-19, China has taken the most comprehensive, rigorous and thorough measures under the strong leadership of President Xi Jinping. It has imposed a lockdown on Wuhan city, the epicenter of the epidemic, which has a population of more than 11 million. The 1.4 billion Chinese people responded to the call of quarantining themselves at home. Within two weeks, two hospitals with 2,600 beds were built. Nineteen province-level administrative regions outside Hubei province, the hardest hit region, paired with different cities in Hubei in order to provide targeted assistance. More than 42,000 healthcare workers of 346 medical teams from all over the country and the military gathered in Hubei province, especially in Wuhan, to treat tens of thousands of COVID-19 patients there. Thanks to concerted efforts, China has made remarkable progress in epidemic prevention and control, and the trend of accelerated resumption of production and work has sustained across the country. China’s outstanding achievements in fighting COVID-19 have slowed down the spread of the disease worldwide, provided valuable opportunities and experience for the global fight against the epidemic, and won widespread praise from the international community. WHO Director General Tedros Ghebreyesus said that China has bought the world time, even though at a great cost to itself. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres praised China’s contribution to the global fight against COVID-19, noting that the Chinese are making efforts for humanity. II. China’s battle against COVID-19 is vivid practice of building a community with a shared future for mankind China is not alone in its unprecedented fight against COVID-19. Its epidemic control efforts have won wide support from various countries in the world. Leaders of more than 170 countries and heads of over 40 international organizations, including H.E. Dr. John Pombe Magufuli, President of the United Republic of Tanzania, have expressed their condolences and support to China. President Magufuli told me with emotion that Tanzania stands firmly with China through thick and thin, and will do all it can to support China in combating the epidemic. He added that as long as Chinese brothers and sisters are in need, Tanzania is ready to send its doctors to China at any time to help fight COVID-19. As good friends and brothers, African countries and China have a fine tradition of sharing weal and woe and looking to each other for assistance. When China faces the threat of COVID-19, our African brothers have not forgotten that when the Ebola virus ravaged Africa in 2014, China is the first country that sent a chartered plane to deliver emergency relief supplies and a medical team to treat African patients regardless of the high risk of infection. A friend in need is a friend indeed. Despite their limited capabilities, African countries reciprocated by extending their helping hands to China this time. No matter in the Ordinary Session of the African Union Executive Council or in the Extra-ordinary Meeting of the SADC Ministers of Health, there is consensus that what China has done to fight COVID-19 is commendable and deserve respect and support. III. China’s battle against COVID-19 demonstrates its responsibility as a major country in building a community with a shared future for mankind “Even if it was just a little help from others, you should return the favor with all you can when others are in need.” This is a traditional virtue of the Chinese nation, and it is also an integral part of the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, China has been actively conducting international cooperation against the epidemic and work closely with other countries to safeguard regional and global public health in an open, transparent and responsible manner. China shared the genetic sequence of the virus with the WHO and other countries in a timely fashion. It has been releasing information about the epidemic situation in China on daily basis, and sharing its experiences in fighting COVID-19 with the whole world, including publishing of the latest versions of Prevention and Control Protocol and Clinical Protocols for Diagnosis and Treatment. China has provided aid to the best of its capabilities to the WHO and other countries and regions where the epidemic has rapidly spread, such as Japan and South Korea. China has also sent medical teams to a number of countries, including Iraq, Iran, Italy, Serbia and Cambodia, to support their fight against the epidemic. China attaches great importance to protecting the health of foreign nationals in the country, and has been treating foreign students in China as if they were the sons and daughters of the Chinese people. Take Tanzania as an example, up to now, none of the over 5,000 Tanzanian citizens in China has contracted COVID-19, thanks to the effective measures taken by local governments and universities. At present, COVID-19 continues to spread in Africa, and the situation is turning increasingly severe. The people in China feel keenly for Africa as it faces the challenge of COVID-19. The Chinese Government has donated two batches of testing kits, totaling 12,000, to Africa through Africa CDC, and will soon provide more emergency relief supplies to Tanzania and other African countries affected by COVID-19. Many Chinese enterprises and NGOs, such as Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation, have donated the badly needed medical supplies to Africa. Recently, Chinese experts held the first video conference with their African counterparts to share their experiences in controlling the epidemic and treating the patients. We are proud that China is once again the first country that has provided massive aid to Africa when the continent is in need. The COVID-19 pandemic reveals that in the age of globalization, the world is a community sharing weal and woe, and no country can address alone the many challenges facing mankind or afford to retreat into self-isolation. The virus does not respect borders, nor does it respect ethnicity, religion or social status. It has become global consensus that to help others is to help yourself. However, we should also note that individual country and politicians have not only understated the epidemic situation of their own, done a bad job in epidemic control, but fabricated rumors, stigmatized China and disregarded international cooperation, constituting stumbling blocks to the global fight against COVID-19. Facts proved that international solidarity and cooperation is the best weapon to fight COVID-19 pandemic. During the Extraordinary G20 Leaders’ Summit on COVID-19 held on 26 March, Chinese President Xi Jinping made an important speech. He noted the need to be resolute in fighting an all-out global war against the COVID-19 outbreak, and proposed countries in the world work together to build a strongest global network of control and treatment that the world has ever seen. The G20 leaders reached broad consensus on such aspects as presenting a united front against COVID-19 and safeguarding the global economy. I believe that as long as we uphold the concept of building a community of a shared future for mankind, help each other and jointly overcome the difficulties, we will certainly triumph over COVID-19 pandemic ultimately and create a better future for mankind.