SIMBA SC Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck said he felt sorry for Singida United following his team's massive 8-0 win at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. Simba's bull striker Meddie Kagere contributed four goals in the victory to extend his golden boot race to 19 goals and with ten matches remaining for his side before the end of the season, the Rwandan striker seem sharp to defend his golden boot in two consecutive seasons. Deo Kanda netted a brace, while other goals were scored by skipper John Bocco and substitute Sharaf Shiboub. Classic Simba were on the surge on the day with goals showering from all direction of the pitch to reach a total of 63 goals they have netted so far this season and have since conceded 15 goals fewer than any other team on the log. The most important thing though for Simba was the essential three points they obtained to hit 71 points and stay comfortably at the summit of the league table with the silverware still within their reach. Singida United are on the verge of bidding farewell the top flight football next season. At a post-match briefing, Vandenbroeck was quick to apologise to the visiting side after succumbing to the heaviest defeat of the season. “Scoring 8-0, I feel sorry for the opponent but we could have scored more than that after missing many scoring chances. In the end, eight goals to nothing was ok because sometimes you do not have to be such greedy against your opponent,” he said. Again, the Belgian trainer said he was particularly impressed with mentality of some players, who were hungry to score more and more goals until the end of the match, urging that mentality to continue. “Some players had good game approach, while others need to work hard. Before the game, I was a bit afraid especially after losing our previous match on how we were going to respond but in the end, it was good for us,” he said. Moreover, Vandenbroeck said that as they go for a break to pave way for the national team duels, it is his hope that players will remain fit such that when the league resumes, they should be on the top gear to seriously take on from where they left. On his part, Singida United second choice goalkeeper Geoffrey Mkumbo who replaced injured Owen Chaima admitted that it was the heavy defeat for them from the big club in the country. “We made mistakes and our opponents capitalised from that. We were highly overpowered in almost all areas throughout the match bearing in mind that they (Simba) have many skilled players,” Mkumbo, whose side finished the game with ten men on the battlefield said. Meanwhile, Singida United Director Festo Sanga insisted that they will fight until the end of the season since they still have a chance to stay put in the contest next season. “If it happens that we have been relegated, then we will again be promoted because we know the necessary measures how to be promoted into the senior league but for now, the fight is not yet over,” Sanga narrated.