YOUNG Africans maintained their third p lace on the Mainland P remier League desp ite being held to a 1-1 draw ag ainst Namungo F C at Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi on Sunday. Yanga took the lead in the 5th minute of the game through Tariq Seif whose sublime header put his side at the driving seat throughout the first half of the game. It was his third goal of the season after joining the Jangwani Street based club during the minitransfer window and had a great game on the day before he was substituted in the 8 1st minute for Deus Kaseke. However, the home ground owners came refreshed in the second half to equalise in the 62nd minute courtesy of Bigirimana Blaise, whose brilliant header was too tricky for Yanga goalkeeper Metacha Mnata. At 1-1, the match was balanced with each side having equal chances to add a score, but neither of them did it until the end of the game. Yanga, who started the match bravely, pressured hard the hosts in the opening five minutes, until at last, they managed to score the opener thanks to Seif header. The striker is still among the trusted scorers at the club, despite missing regularly in most of the matches his team played. However, despite having a one-goal advantage Yanga seemed not to scare the hosts, who kept pushing for the equaliser even before the halftime, but most of their attempts then were far from the target. Namungo danger man Blaise had a perfect chance to level the score midway into the first half, but Yanga goalkeeper Metacha Mnata was calm between the posts to easily collect the ball. Blaise was really a thorn in flesh for Yanga defenders with his pace and agility causing trouble to the visitors. He had another great chance to score in the 56th minute when Yanga defence was well exposed, but his shot hit the side net to the relief of Yanga. Also, Yanga had a goal disallowed in the 13th minute for a foul committed to Namungo shot stopper Nouridine Balora before the ball went in. It was the visiting side who went to the changing room with heads up while Namungo had a home work to do ahead of the second half. With the outcome, Yanga reached 51 points from 27 games while Namungo have remained fourth with 50 points after 28 encounters, thus just one point separates the two teams as they race to claim one of the top positions of the ongoing league. Elsewhere, KMC thrashed Alliance FC 2-1 at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to climb to the 14 th place on the table with 33 points while the ship for Alliance seem to be downing as they sit at the 18 th position on the log with 29 points from 29 games. It means they reap one point from every match they play. KMC seem to have gained momentum since defeating Yanga 1-0 at the same venue on Tuesday.