THE Commission for Science and Technology (Costech), has said that innovation ecosystem in Tanzania has grown over the last nine years, changing the landscape of various sectors and public services. Costech Director General, Dr Amos Nungu, further told journalists in Dar es Salaam on Thursday that, the government through the commission started building an innovation ecosystem in the country in 2011 to help address various challenges, which face the public. Giving his opening remarks to announce this year’s Innovation Week, Dr Nungu said that in the past nine years, over 110 - startups have been created through Dar Teknohama Business Incubator (DTBi), Buni and provision of innovation funds amounting to 1.9bn/-. “Innovation has changed the landscape of various sectors, and even the public services, our ecosystem has created over 700 direct employments,” he added. However, the Director noted that Costech was glad to participate in the 6th Innovation Week scheduled to start on March 8 this year in Dar es Salaam to be marked by various outreach events outside of the city. Dr Nungu equally said that this year, the week will be marked in Arusha, Iringa, Zanzibar, Dodoma, and Mbeya, where the regional editions will run from March 16 to 20 this year. “This is a clear indication that the Innovation Ecosystem is growing and that there is national interest for the participation,” he added. On his part, the Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF) Country Director, Mr Joseph Manirakiza said that innovation ecosystem has brought huge strides in the country. “This is evident in the huge growth we have seen in sponsorship and partnership support for Innovation Week, where the government has increased investments in innovation and partnership we are undertaking with MAKISATU-the government ‘s innovation competition,” he said. He said innovation week was crucial because it brings together the innovation ecosystem players in Tanzania to learn from each other, showcase their innovations and connect with potential partners.