YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Luc Eymael has challenged his side to continue winning their remaining Vodacom Premier League (V PL ) matches to move up the league ladder. Yanga hammered Alliance FC 2-0 over the weekend at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam to cling to fourth slot on the log with 44 points from 23 games; 2 points adrift third placed occupants Namungo FC who have claimed 46 points after 24 outings. The 27-time champions face Mbao FC tomorrow at the same venue in the city before hosting their long-time traditional rivals Simba SC on March 8th at the giant 60,000 capacity National Stadium. At a post-match briefing, Eymael insisted on his players to continue winning games calling the victory as a deserved one for them. “He however revealed that in their tomorrow’s game, he will rest some players as he usually does so that others can have an opportunity to play,” he said. Also, the Belgian trainer bemoaned missing chances for his team especially in the first half of the game. “It was sad to see that we had to wait for Nchimbi to come in to convert the created chances to goals. Our opponents had minimal opportunities to score since we succeeded to dominate them while lauding his goalkeeper Metacha Mnata for his brilliance on his guarding area,” he said. Commenting a bit about the traditional derby clash on Sunday, the coach said facing Simba is always not a normal game basing on the qualities the two sides have. He again described their good football display on the day as highly contributed by the perfect pitch saying it is different from other playing pitches across the country. On his part, Alliance FC Head Coach, Fred Minziro conceded the defeat saying they need to look up for other upcoming matches. “We had a great game especially in the first half only that we failed to turn into goals the opportunities we had,” he said. It was a substitute Ditram Nchimbi who fired a brace in the second half to propel his side to their first win after registering four back to back draws in their past league encounters. The defeat has left Alliance at the 13th place on the table with 29 points after playing 25 games, and are not entirely safe from the relegation danger.