EMPLOYERS countrywide should know that it is a criminal offence to employ any person as an Accountant or Auditor unless the individual is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) registered. That was said by the National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NB AA), Executive Director, Pius Maneno while meeting a team of Auditors, and Accountants during Tanzania Association of Accounts (TAA) in their week long free education and consultancy service to the public in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. He said that the NB AA established under the Auditors and Accountants (Registration) Act No 33 of 1972, as amended by Act No 2 of 1995 as an accountancy regulatory professional body and operates under the Ministry of Finance criminalizes an individual to impose him/herself as an Accountant/Auditor without being cleared. The Director further noted that the country still has few Accountants/Auditors in comparison to the growing economic growth to manage financial matters, and hence, advised students to study subjects, which would lead them to the profession. Thanking TAA for organising the week long plough back to the community, where recently a pool of Accountants/ Auditors visited Amana Hospital in the city and donated blood and medicine, Mr Maneno noted that their skills are still essential for the country to achieve its industrialisation drive. He said that NB AA’s programme that includes mentoring Accountants/Auditors would further assist them to navigate easily through the post, and in turn acquire experience that would enable them rise in posts. “This mentorship encourages Accountants/Auditors to think wide, coaches and fosters one to one relationship to enable an employer to tap deep skills from his staff,” he added. On his part, CPA Ludovick Utouh, who was former C ontroller and Auditor General (C AG) while applauding the fifth phase government for improving economy said that such situation was creating job opportunities to the locals. He said that in the past four years in comparison to the previous period, over 50 old Schools countrywide have been repaired as a result of good revenue collections and expenditure. “This including sealed loopholes where theft, graft and other uncalled for actions, which used to milk institutions have impressed the W orld B ank to keep on assisting the country,” he added.