SIMBA SC maestro holding midfielder Jonas Mkude has defended his discipline record, insisting that as a human, nobody is perfect. Mkude hits headlines after failure to report to the recently dissolved national team, Taifa Stars camp in Dar es Salaam, ahead of the 2020 African Nation Championships (CHAN) finals as well as 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers. However, the camp was dissolved on Tuesday, following an order by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who announced cancelation of all sporting activities and events that are of a huge public nature, as part of strengthening preventive measures to avoid the spread of COVID-19. “Like any other human being, I’m not perfect and definitely, I have my weaknesses as anyone else, therefore, people should stop judging me on the wrong end,” Mkude told a local radio station. Mkude spoke out about his personal life, admitting that he takes booze but he is not a drunkard. The sturdy midfielder said he drinks at particular time for relaxation and not always. “Yes! I take booze but not willful indulge to excess…people must also understand at what time I take booze. “You know, it is better before you write or talk about anybody, first contact that person to balance your story because you don’t know how much the conclusions you draw is going to hurt and tarnish the image of others,” opened up Mkude. “Many things that are written or talked about me are totally wrong and unfounded. It hurts me and my family, as well as relatives,” he lamented, although he insisted that he is not perfect and everyone has his good and bad side. About his career in general, Mkude who is currently Simba’s long serving player expressed his devotion and affection to the club. He vehemently refuted claims that he is looking for an exit. “These claims are purely baseless… I’m still a Simba player with valid contract and I love this club,” Mkude, who played for Simba for the past ten seasons consecutively,” said. Speaking the secret of managing to be the long serving player at the Msimbazi Street based club, Mkude said it was all about dedication, commitment and discipline. “You can be in a club for ten years without having any uniqueness and be indiscipline yet the club tolerates you. That means both sides need each other’s services, which they think it’s unique. “In football, you can be the best but you cannot be at your best always and that why, I respect my opponents in the field because sometimes they will overwhelm you,” said the midfielder. Mkude said every player loves or dreams to play for his/her national team, saying it will be weird for him to reject playing for Taifa Stars. “I have never ever said anything, anywhere about resigning from serving the national team or rejecting the call to feature in the team,” he insisted. Recently, the so called manager/agent of the midfielder, Juma Ndambile was quoted as saying that Mkude is looking forward to retire from serving Taifa Stars, due to misunderstandings the player has with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), which Mkude vehemently denied. Mkude is said to be planning to meet with the Taifa Stars Head Coach, Burundian Etienne Ndayiragije, to explain on why he failed to join the team’s camp before it was dissolved.