PROFESSOR Flora Fabian is one of quite few of Tanzanian women active scientists. She is the former Director of Research and Publications, Innovations, Consultancy and Institutional Collaboration at the University of Dodoma (UDOM). Educated in Tanzania and Japan, she believes in hard work. She says that any achievement bagged outside the hard work circumference is not worth the time given to it. “I am what I am today because of hard work, fulfilling goals I set for myself and respecting the task at hand,” she explains, adding that she meritoriously won the Japanese Mombusho PhD scholarship, being one of three out of more than thirty applicants. She asserts that gender has nothing to do with one’s job much as some people may have gender stereotyping. Prof. Flora Fabian was born to peasant parents at a village called Kikelelwa in Rombo District, Kilimanjaro Region. Both her parents could read and write. Both parents encouraged her to go to school and her father was exceptional in that he wanted all the girls in the family to go to school. “He thought I was the most brilliant of his children and he used to boast of my brilliance and praised me a lot. I must say I was very lucky to have such a father,” she says. Most of her secondary school teachers were very strict. She remembers the headmistress Mama Shuma of Machame Girls Secondary School who was an inspiration to all the girls, Mrs Tete who was an iron lady, Ms Bategereza who inspired her in the science stream. She believes that this was one of the influences for her to become a scientist later in her life. Other teachers she remembers are Mr Mwanga who was teaching agriculture and never expected a pupil to miss his classes and Mr Mbwambo who gave her the best English foundation. Their science teachers were very inspirational, praising all the pupils who did well, particularly girls who did exceptionally well. They encouraged all the girls who could make it into science subjects to do so. She went to Machame girls (O-level) and Mwenge Secondary (A-level) schools and chose science subjects because she wanted to use the knowledge in practical ways. She was in what was called science A class; Laboring with what was then called Additional Mathematics as an extra subject, but which made her receive a 2nd prize in the then East African Mathematics competition. Additional mathematics was also a good foundation to the A– level subsidiary mathematics of those times. Because of her love for mathematics and other science subjects particularly chemistry, she joined the Science and Math clubs because she wanted to prepare natural chemicals such as biological colours and soap from plants. Her sister, the first born was a role model to her, not because she was a nun but because of her job, taking care of patients and specifically old people. During O-level years, the young Flora used to participate in secondary school science exhibitions and received several awards. “I also participated in the East African Math competition and became second, so my school was highly ranked then,” she vividly recalls. When she applied for medicine course at the University of Dar es Salaam, she placed medicine as her first choice and Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) as her second choice. She was selected into DDS and she was informed that not many had indicated DDS in their choices. After she was asked whether she still wanted to stick to her first choice, she decided to consult her sister who reasoned that since she was already in general medicine then she could continue with DDS. During her studies at Muhimbili, she was impressed by the lectures and thought it was nice to teach other people to become doctors. At that time, the number of doctors, both general practitioners and dentists, were still very few in the country, so Flora thought the best way to multiply the number of doctors was through teaching. While in Japan for her PhD studies under the Mombusho scholarship, Prof. Flora continued to exhibit her capabilities. “I was the best in the then Department of Anatomy and Hard Tissue at the Tokyo Medical and Dental University and was given one year as a research fellow,” she notes. After her PhD, Dr. Flora knew that she had to work hard, publish and ascend the academic ladder. However, being a mother and an academician was not very easy. To manage that, Prof. Flora used to make sure that during the weekends she would give her time to children and have helpers to take and pick them from school. “But in the evening, I had to sit with them to make sure they did their home works and sign in their diaries so that they could take them back to school the following day,” she says. She made it a habit to be at the office by six thirty or latest at seven so that she could have some quality time in writing before classes start at eight. She later moved to the Dar es Salaam based International Medical and Technological University (IMTU) to become a Principal and then a Vice- Chancellor (VC), before going back again to join a public university at UDOM where she is until to date teaching and mentoring young scientists. She is of the opinion that gender has got nothing to do with one’s job. She expounds that some may have gender stereotyping but after sometime they learn that being capable does not depend on gender; Personal traits are important. She is a co-author of a textbook on Cell Biology and Histology with other two Professors: Cassian Magori and Ainory Gesase. One conference she thinks was a big success was a workshop called Co-creation, Capacity Development and Policy Engagement seminar at Oxford University held in June 2017. Her talk was on: “What makes for a good Research Partnership? A view from Tanzania.” Being the only one representing the country, was an honor for her. On leadership Prof. Flora says a woman leader should guard against prejudice and that leadership requires discipline and dedication no matter what. According to her, a leader requires patience to work with many characters and that it is always a learning process. “Having specific, measurable, achievable objectives with time frame is key to staying focused,” she emphasizes. Girl empowerment She says that networking and leadership skills are issues that should be given weight and required to be embedded as key among the issues relating to girl empowerment. The Professor says the society should be careful when addressing the girl only as this might leave the boy out. “Let us encourage the girl child and the boy child to work together and support each other, they need each other to make steps. Otherwise boys will end up thinking that girls are just favored, they cannot work for themselves,” she cautions. Advice to young people She says that technology is extremely important and the tool for today’s functioning efficiently, however it might be a killer of our good culture and etiquette. “Just observe how families in these technological times live; Each one is busy with a gadget, personal communication is quite scanty,” she wonders, “there are no longer bed-time stories, no grandma/grand pa stories.” It pains her seeing youngsters watching movies and thinking their lives can be as those actors/actresses, expecting things will just happen without investing on personal development. “We need to change from spoon feeding to how to think and advocate on personal development and change of mind set. We were quite different when we were young; we were taught to be useful and supportive of our elders and respect them,” she notes. She notes that the current education system is mainly based on the banking philosophy— lecturing and giving exams. “Immediately after exams nothing makes any meaning any more. Students study for grades and not for acquiring skills that can solve community/ social problems. We need to transform our education from banking to critical thinking and problems solving skills,” she advices. She advises women to develop a mechanism to balance their carriers and family life. “It must be in our awareness that we balance work, family and of course our spiritual life is the touch to all,” she says. According to her, God is love! God allows everything to be. Therefore, whatever happens in life is a lesson to be learnt and ‘we shouldn’t blame others for our failures’. Emmanuel Rubagumya is a freelance writer on innovation, science and technology: innovationstz@gmail. com