TANZANIA ranks among African countries with the highest growth in the hospitality industry at an average rate of 6.3 per cent in the past six years but a few challenges spoil the party. The hospitality sector being a service-oriented industry, delivery of the same is crucial, and new entrant in the local market, five-star Johari Rotana, has literally raised the bar in investing in its human assets for optimum output. As investors, Johari Rotana Hotel intends to contribute highly to the country’s GDP by offering the high-end largest ball room for conferences facilities accommodating maximum 800 pax thus attracting business conferences around the neighbourhood countries. In achieving so, Human Resources Director, Rahma Nahdi, said it is Johari Rotana’s goal to invest in the growth and development of our colleagues by embracing the Rotana four core values i.e. LIFE (L–Long-term, I– Innovation, F– Friendly, E– Ethical). Nahdi emphasized that the hotel’s main focus is to be able to develop and grow their colleagues within 18 months thereafter preparing them for international exposure as Tanzania ambassadors into the hospitality industry globally as well as developing them to being the future leaders within Johari Rotana, consequently as a company this is what sets them apart from the rest. At Johari, she said, career growth and development are among Johari Rotana’s strategies, whereas colleagues have a clear career growth plan platform created and tailored towards accomplishing their individual goals. This not only secures their sustainability in the company but encourages and motivates colleagues to be more adaptive to changes and be inspired to pursue more in their careers. “One should always be inspired to achieve more in life, at Johari Rotana we offer our colleagues the platform in doing so with utmost support from the Management team,” stated Nahdi. Investing in our colleagues through development and training has brought a magnificent effect relating to our services. Enhancing our productivity, having colleagues who are motivated thus improving the employer / employee relation in general, henceforth reinforce the Johari Rotana corporate culture. On average, Tanzania receives over 1.5 million tourists annually, spending US$ 2.4 billion, all owing to the various tourist attractions the country has to offer. During the soft launch of the hotel in Dar es Salaam late last year, Acting CEO of Rotana, Guy Hutchinson, observed that the hotel has a unique story to share and that the opening is part of its longterm strategy in Africa. “With the opening of the hotel, the company has reached a significant milestone in our journey. Setting new standards in architecture, design, technology, offerings, and service excellence, our first property in East Africa heralds a new hospitality experience in the region. “We are confident that our spacious rooms and suites, wide selection of food and beverage venues, advanced meeting and conference facilities–including the largest ballroom in Tanzania –and unsurpassed wellness and recreation facilities will appeal to our guests and provide a competitive advantage in the market,” he said. Learning and Development leader, Amina Ukwaju states that training in Johari Rotana echoes that concentration is more on the welfare and progress of employees and not merely the company. “We have programs that begin with the recruitment process, we encourage job creation so as much as we hire experienced individuals, we also recruit extensively from the National Tourism College, merely to support and develop youth employment through fresh graduates offering them the stepping stone to their careers,” she said. Ukwaju added that Johari Rotana Hotel owns fully equipped training facilities for colleagues hence training is provided in-house, ensuring the Rotana Standard is maintained. The new hotel, located in the country’s commercial capital’s Central Business District boasts of spacious rooms, suites and serviced apartments which include 193 luxurious hotel rooms as well as 60 fully furnished and serviced apartments also marks the company’s entrance to the East African market. The facility also features four stylish dining venues, namely the lobby lounge Kibo, an all-day dining restaurant Zafarani, an upscale Chinese restaurant Noble House and the informal Hamilton’s Gastropub. Guests staying at the hotel also have access to a wide selection of wellness and sports facilities, including an outdoor pool, fully equipped gym with a boxing ring, sauna, steam and treatment rooms. Rotana currently manages a portfolio of over 100 properties throughout the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey with an aggressive expansion plan in place. Moving forward, the global tourism and hospitality industry is growing and so is the sector in the country. To meet the growing demand, quality service cannot be overemphasized hence the more the need to invest in human capital. According to Nahdi, the hotel is first and foremost people oriented and not just business oriented and so it is imperative that they raise the ante in terms of quality service delivery. Nahdi acknowledges that continuous training to its colleagues assures unceasing highest quality service deliverance to its guests consequently drawing more guests.