IT is high time the nation makes proper use of innovation in order to spur up productivity, job creation and economic development. The call was issued here on Monday by the Director of the Science, Technology and Innovation Department at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Prof Maulilio Kipanyula. Prof Kipanyula was talking to innovators and exhibitors ahead of the second edition of the National Competition for Science, Technology and Innovation (Makisatu) which kicks off today at the Jamhuri Stadium. He urged innovators to always consider market demand in order to realise the benefits of their work, both financially and in terms of their overall development. “Innovations are fortunes, you must be guided on how best to prosper through your novelties… we have officials from copyrights, business registration and Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), use them effectively” he insisted. At least 580 innovators are expected to showcase their works at this year’s Makisatu competition. Prof Kipanyula reaffirmed the government’s commitment to empower local innovators so that their technologies can contribute significantly in socio-economic development within and outside the country. “The Education, Science and Technology Ministry used funds amounting to 50.55bn/- for 145 projects by 517 researchers in postgraduate courses last year,” he said. Prof Kipanyula explained that the funds were used to finance projects including; developing new seedling machines for corn, beans, paddy, and sweet potatoes as well as a cat urine technology that chases away rats. He said that the government dished out 750m/- to develop 60 innovators who took part in previous competitions, including the one who came up with the idea of making a chopper. Prof Kipanyula said the government was determined to recognise innovators from the grassroots level, saying the innovations which will receive support should have an impact in national development. He said the government received 415 applications last year from various categories, saying after sorting them out, 60 participants were selected to take part in the competition. “About 18 participants were selected from the 60 applications. But the government made the decision to support all the participants,” he said.