EXIM Bank Tanzania has announced five monthly winners in the first round of its recently launched ''ChanjaKijanjana Exim Bank Mastercard'' campaign. According to bank’s Customer Service Senior Manager, Frank Matoro, the campaign is primarily focusing on rewarding the bank’s Mastercard users for making online purchases or payments through payment point devices (POS) in a number of shops and other locations across the country. Expounding, he named the prize winners as Mr Fahim Mohamed (Dar es Salaam), Baraka Rom Kimaro (Dar es Salaam), Hendrick Hopley (Arusha), Humphrey Henry (Mbeya) and Amani Makungu (Zanzibar) with each getting a-state-of-the-art Samsung Smartphone. “At Exim Bank, our cardholders enjoy utmost convenience across our network, when it comes to making purchases or payments across and accepting platforms including dining, shopping, international purchases and online bookings, traveling, hotels, and touristic activities,’’ he further said, during the event to announce the campaign’s first round winners. The winners were announced in the presence of an official representative from the Gaming Board of Tanzania, Exim Bank officials and representatives from the media. The Bank’s Mastercard cardholders still have a chance to enter the second draw in April, 2020 since the campaign will run until end of April, 2020 to reward more win weekly and monthly winners and three grand prize winners. “Apart from the monthly winners, so far a total of 40 weekly winners have been rewarded with shopping vouchers of 50,000/-each’’ said Mr Matoro. “And as for the grand prizes, our customers with their plus one will win an all-expenses-paid trip (Visa cost, plane ticket, match and spending money). The first winner will fly to Dubai, the second winner to Cape Town and the third to the Zanzibar islands.’’ he added. The campaign is open to all Exim Bank MasterCard cardholders, including all new customers who have applied or will apply for new cards during the period of the campaign, added Mr Matoro. “All a customer needs to do is to use his/her Exim Smart-card in all daily purchasing transactions inside or outside the country, and will be entering the draw to win one of campaign prizes. The more the client use his/her Exim MasterCard, the greater the chances of winning in the draw’’ he said.