NMB is looking forward to introduce a special product that will suit entrepreneurs in particular food vendors in Kisarawe District, Coast Region. The product would mean to empower financially and support growth of their businesses, according to NMB’s Acting Chief Finance Officer Benedicto Baragomwa. “We have started preparing a product for food vendors,” Mr Baragomwa noted over the weekend at ‘Mama Lishe Festival’ in Kisarawe district, Coast Region. The festival brought together food vendors, majority of them women, in Kisarawe district for capacity building and recognition of their contribution to economy. Mr Baragomwa noted that as they continued to prepare the product, the bank has begun to provide financial management education to the food vendors, particularly imparting culture of saving. “Today, we have participated in this festival to prove that we are part of the efforts to empower citizens. We see a dire need to support these kinds of initiatives,” he said. He explained that the bank has been playing a pivotal role in empowering entrepreneurs and investors. He appreciated cooperation that the bank was getting from the government. On her part, Kisarawe District Commissioner Jokate Mwegelo explained that the festival was first of its kind in the area, meant to recognize contribution of food vendors to the district’s economy. The event was organized ahead of Women’s Day in March 8 to encourage women to participate in economic activities for realizing gender balance. He noted that food vending has been a major economic activity for majority of women in the district, account for 65 per cent of all women. Through this economic activity, women were able to meet family needs, including paying school fees for their children. Speaking over the festival, Kisarawe District Executive Director Musa Gama said the aim was to empower citizens economically. In line with this, the district has been efficiently allocating 10 per cent of its own revenues to empowering women, youth and people with disabilities. In the past four years of President John Magufuli leadership the district has spent a total of 542m/ to empower the groups.