THE government of France will keep supporting development projects in Tanzania, following unmatched performance of President John Magufuli especially in infrastructure and agriculture in the country. The revelation was made by French Ambassador to Tanzania Frédéric Clavier yesterday while addressing journalists, following an eight-day visit of a team of six senators from his country to the country. He said the Parliamentary Committee on Sustainable Development had been impressed with Tanzania’s peace, which made their country to support the government on security matters as well as other development projects. In the country, the senators will be able to visit various development projects supported by France and other local projects that may need support from the French government. “They are scheduled to visit Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Dodoma and Arusha and meet officials, parastatals agencies and NGOs involved in various development projects in areas of agro ecology, sustainable city, urban transport, water and sanitation, solar energy, waste management and the environment,” said the ambassador. He added that the support of France to Tanzania had increased to €790m for 10 years from 2009 to 2019. The delegation is also scheduled to visit the Parliament of Tanzania where they will meet Speaker of Parliament Job Ndugai and other parliamentary committees in their areas of expertise. In Dar es Salaam, the senators will also meet with French companies  operating in the country in  energy and transport sectors that have been involved in  the creation of the French-Tanzania Chamber of Commerce that will be inaugurated soon. “The aim is to boost bilateral economic relations and investment,” he explained. For their part, the senators commended bilateral relations, called on a need for maintaining the friendly relations for the interest of the present and future generations. Chairman of the committee on Regional Planning and Sustainable Development Senator Hervé Maurey said the two parts could learn from each other on the implementation of various development projects, including building sustainable cities. The senators are Hervé Maurey, Marta de Cidrac, Françoise Ramond, Joël Bigot, Jérôme Bignon and Guillaume Gontard. 