OURS is called the digital era and many enterprises are doing their level best to have a strong on-line presence. Newspapers are at the frontline of this drive. Some of the local Swahili papers that go on-line ensure they have an English version as well, no doubt to attract a wide spectrum of readers. However, it looks like translation from Swahili to English is resulting into hilarious sentence formulations. Take this headline referring to the March 8 Swahili paper which we will refer to here as the Resident. It reads as follows: “Bashiru discussed using the dollar to remain in the White House”. The named person is the Secretary General of the political party in the country that is in power. So what does the headline mean? The Swahili version is: “Bashiru ajadiliwa kauli ya kutumia dola kubaki Ikulu”. You will note that “kutumia dola” is translated as “using the dollar” (close enough you will say!); and “Ikulu” is taken to mean “the White House”. My translation would be: “Bashiru’s statement on the use of the State by the ruling Party, to remain in power, debated”. Another headline on the same date was: “The Baptist’s statements about the opponents are provoking debate”. You will be excused for believing that some Baptist pastor had possibly made a political statement. Nothing of the sort. The Swahili version does not mention any pastor, Baptist or otherwise: “Kauli za Mbatia kuhusu wapinzani zaibua mjadala”. It looks like the name of the Honourable Mbatia was translated into: “The Baptist”. My translation would be: “Mbatia’s statements on the Opposition provoke debate”. A few days later, on March 10, Hon Mbatia (certainly, not The Baptist), had an exclusive and wide-ranging interview with journalists from a major media house in the country and referred to the dola/dollar statement above, observing that: “if we do not observe our tongues we may find ourselves ‘in big troubles’” (Good Citizen, March 11, p. 3). Given that “in big trouble” is an idiom, we are dissuaded from editing it, even into “in big troubles”. Besides, “observe our tongues” is not commonly used. The more common form is “watch (one’s) tongue” (eg, watch your tongue”). To “watch (one’s) tongue” means “to be very mindful, or cautious about what one says; to keep a check on one’s language, or control what one says; and, yes, to mind one’s language”. Hon Mbatia was therefore cautioning people to watch their tongue otherwise they may find themselves in big trouble. We turn overseas to Italy, a country currently struggling with a high incidence of the corona virus infection. Despite such a public health problem, a former Prime Minister is having a good time. The Swahili headline (online, 5 March) went as follows: “Waziri Mkuu wa Italia aachana na mpenziwe, anasa kwa dogodogo anayemzidi miaka 54”. This got a hilarious translation: “The Italian Prime Minister forsakes his lover, a luxury for a puppy over 54 years old”. Would the former Prime Minister go for a puppy? Do puppies live that long, 54 years? I now have a sneaking feeling that these translations are done by machines, not humans. It looks like the word “anasa” is translated into “luxury”; and “dogodogo is translated into “puppy”. Remember, a puppy is a young dog, close enough to “dogodogo”!! Of the many on-line English versions of the event, the following is closest to the Swahili translation: “Former Italian Prime Minister splits from long-term girlfriend ‘for woman 53 years his junior’”. Part of the news item (an English version translated from Swahili) reads as follows: “Former Italian Prime Minister, SB, is separated from his long-time ‘boyfriend’ and decides to start a relationship with a woman who is over 54 years old”!! As a result: “The 83-years old, is divorced from his ‘ex-wife’ FP, after being in relationship for 12 years”. Let us point out, in conclusion, that you get divorced from your wife, not from your exwife; and, that this wife (current or ex) is not your boyfriend. Could somebody please make sure that whatever goes on-line from our newspapers makes sense? lusuggakironde@gmail.com