TWO Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) have launched a project to assist slow learners know how to read, write and count and in turn catch up with others. The project being piloted in five Primary Schools of Amani, Chiwondo, Mondomera, Chiboli and Muyendaje in Dodoma Region would assist the pupils learn fast enough. The NGOs-Uwezo Tanzania and Women Wake Up (WOWAP) all based in Dodoma launched the project yesterday at a function that was attended by public officials from the Ministry of Education as well as other stakeholders from the education sector. According to Uwezo Tanzania Research and Innovation Officer, Benjamin Masebo, the project, dubbed ‘Jifunze Project,’ will be rolled out in the institutions in Chamwino District, simultaneously with others in Kisarawe (Coast Region) and Mvomero (Morogoro Region). “We started with a pilot programme in all the three regions for 20 days and our assessment was that the project succeeded by over 50per cent,’’ he said. According to Masebo, prior to the programme in classes, two teachers were picked from the schools and trained, adding: “Many children appeared to love the project because of the unique techniques applied by the teachers, thereafter they were capable of writing and reading   unlike before.” The programme was started in December, 2019 and it is expected to reach its climax in June, this year. According to Mr Masebo about 16 Primary Schools (five selected from each district) will benefit from the project. “Usually we select one NGO from every district where the project is rolled out, which becomes an implementing partner, and, in this case in Dodoma District we selected WOWAP,’’ he said. Speaking during the official launch of the project, WOWAP Executive Director, Fatma Tawfiq said the scheme will focus on teaching children, who were rushed and graduated out of Primary education without capability to read and write. “This project is in line with Sustainable Development Goal number four which focuses on the need for children and adolescents to meet minimum proficiency standards in reading and mathematics,’’ she said. Ms Tawfiq, who also doubles as Special Seats Member of Parliament said that for the country to attain its ambitious middle income economy, it is important to improve the education sector. However, Ms Hanifa Abdul, who represented Chamwino District Commissioner during the launch urged parents to intensify collaboration with teachers in the schools where the project was being implemented.