STATE Attorney Juma Mahona has told a High Court here that an accused in a murder case allegedly hired killers for a fee of 600,000/-. The accused, identified as Lucas Lukanda, (36), a resident of Nyamazina village, Biharamulo District, is facing a murder case in relation to the deaths of two persons who were identified as Method Donald (14) and Paschal Donald (16), both residents of Nyamazina village. Mr Mahona told the court that on November 2, 2014, at night, unknown people killed Method Donald, (14), and Paschal Donald, (16), using a sharp object and tendered two postmortem reports indicating that the cause of death was due to excessive bleeding, Earlier, Judge Dr Ntemi Kilekamajenga allowed a cautioned statement which the accused made at Nemba police station to be tendered as exhibit. He noted that the cautioned statement was made voluntarily and there was no intimidation or threat. The cautioned statement was also read aloud in court to allow the accused to hear the contents. Toyo Bunzali, a Ten-Cell leader who testified as Public Witness–PW4 told the court that the accused (Lukanda) was accusing one of his neighbours, identified as Leonard Donald to have been in love with his wife, Dotto Heleli, who had four children. According to Mr Mahona, the accused hired a gang of killers at an agreed sum of 600,000/- and paid them 400,000/-in advance to kill Leonard Donald, but for unknown reasons the assailants mistakenly killed the two boys who were Donald’s sons. “Your honour, under Section 22 (1) (b) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), a person who aids another person to kill another person is guilty of the offence of transfer of malice,” he contended. Judge Kilekamajenga adjourned the Criminal Case No 2/2019 until on Thursday when he will address the Court Assessors. Meanwhile, Judge Kilekamajenga has clarified that two persons facing a murder case have a case to answer, calling upon them to give their defence. He made the remarks during the hearing of a murder case Number 48/2018 facing Aliyu Dauda Hassan, (36), from Kemondo, Bukoba Rural District, and Rashid Mzee Athuman (29), from Rwamishenye Ward in Bukoba Municipality. He also agreed that the cautioned statement be tendered and was cleared for admission. The cautioned statement was also read out in court so that its content could be heard by the accused persons. Prosecuting State Attorney Juma Mahona who was assisted by Emmanuel Kahigi and Veronica Moshi alleged in court that on the night of May 27, 2015 the accused together with other persons not before the court, murdered the late Joseph Gabriel, a resident of Kitwe village, of Kalabagaine Ward in Bukoba Rural District.