THE DIRECTOR of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Mr Biswalo Mganga has warned Arusha Urban legislator Godbless Lema and others who are using political platforms to issue inflammatory remarks. “This is not acceptable and intolerable. We should not misuse political platforms, be a CCM member or be from any political party, to disturb peace and harmony for political interests is intolerable,” the DPP, Mr Mganga told a press conference in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. He was responding to the allegations made by the opposition party, Chadema’s MP that 14 people in Singida region were slaughtered and the government has not taken any steps to bring the culprits into justice. DPP said he heard about the allegations while on official duties in Tabora region and swiftly inquired about it. He said he directed relevant authorities, in particular the police force to provide him a detailed report surrounding such killings. “I directed that all the files be brought to me. I personally scrutinised thoroughly one file after the other,” revealed the DPP. To his surprise, the DPP said, he discovered that indeed such people as provided in the list by Lema, were dead, but the causes of deaths were not as claimed by the opposition lawmaker and that relevant authorities had already taken appropriate measures, including arraigning the suspects. “The police arrested all the suspects involved and murder charges were filed in court. None of the victims were slaughtered. They met their deaths for different causes,” Mr Mganga further revealed. Having been satisfied by the records in the cases’ filed , the DPP was quick to conclude that what Lema had said in respect to the deaths of 14 people, including Alex Jonas, who was Chadema Secretary, Manyoni East Constituency, were totally false and misleading information. The list of deceased also include Sechelela Moses, Abdallah Lyanga, Rajab Abas, Marthini Motekwa and Hamad Hussein, Emmanuel Meso, Mika Saimoni, Myambelele Njezo, John Lugion, Michael Charles, Issa Abdalla, Jumanne Ndelemo as well as Heri Mamba. The DPP questioned Lema’s motive of trying to make the Tanzanian community believe that the victims were slaughtered and appealed to politicians to act rationally, reminding them that there was no justice without obligation.