YOUNG Africans will be looking to stamp second consecutive league victory as they entertain Mbao FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. It will be a battle between the 4th placed side against the relegation threatened side placed at the 18th position on the log, hence forcing both side to seek crucial three points. Yanga smashed Alliance FC 2-0 in their recent match at the 60,000 capacity venue with substitute Ditram Nchimbi netting a brace on the day for his team. The triumph drove Yanga to 44 points, 2 points behind the third-placed Namungo FC as the Lindi based team continues to enjoy a smooth ride in the 20-team league to make the top four clash very interesting. Only 2 points separate them against Azam who sit second on the table. After posting winless run in their four back to back encounters, Yanga got back to winning ways after stamping a 1-0 win over Gwambina FC at the Uhuru Stadium in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) courtesy of Haruna Niyonzima goal which guaranteed them a place into the last eight of the contest. However, speaking recently in the city, Yanga’s Communication Officer, Hassan Bumbuli said it was early to write off the team in the title contender race saying the champion will only be known after the league is over. “Do not be mislead by some people who are sidelining Yanga to claim this season’s Mainland Premier League title because the fight is not yet over and anything can happen,” said him. He, however, conceded that they will need to focus more on clinching the ASFC silverware as one way to give them opportunity to feature in the CAF Confederation Cup next season. Also, the team’s Head Coach, Luc Eymael revealed that he will make a couple of changes for his team in today’s match to give others a chance to play. He however commented a bit about their big match on Sunday against Simba saying facing them (Simba) is always not a normal game basing on the qualities installed by both teams. On the other hand, Mbao FC will not be in a position to surrender for the second time against Yanga after the first round meeting between them at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza elapsed 1-0 in favour of the visitors. With the current standings, Mbao are not completely safe to avoid league relegation jaws for next season unless they manage to pocket vital three points in all their upcoming matches.