PERMANENT Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture Gerald Kusaya has commended the board and management of Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union (KNCU 1984) Limited for ongoing changes. Speaking during his tour of the Africa’s oldest cooperative offices on Friday, Mr Kusaya said due to its great history as the pioneer of the cooperative sector in the country and Africa, KNCU had the task of restoring respect of cooperatives in the country. “The situation of the cooperative sector in the country is so far not good, it doesn’t impress the government, including President John Magufuli. It is high time you (KNCU) did something to restore the sector’s honour through ways which will be emulated by other cooperative institutions. For you at KNCU, things are changing. I am delighted for that. You have utilised funds well and you also continue paying debts despite the challenges facing you. Keep it up!” he said. The PS noted that the board and management of KNCU should not be discouraged by challenges facing the union, instead they should ensure they turned their challenges into opportunities. He advised the board and management of KNCU to embark on investments which would be sustainable and which he said would benefit its members especially farmers who he said played a big role in strengthening the economy of the nation. Earlier, KNCU Board Chairman, Prof John Boshe, told the PS that the union had projected to collect 1,048 ,798 ,429/- in the fiscal year 2019/20 and that by January this year 576,100,828 /-, equivalent to 54 per cent of the projection, had been collected. Prof Boshe unveiled that the current board of directors inherited a 2.9bn/- debt from the immediate past board of directors. “The current board reviewed the debt and it was reduced to 2.3bn/- and so far, the union has repaid 723m/- of the debt as of January 31, this year,” he noted. Commenting on the challenges facing KNCU, Prof Boshe said the debt included accumulated debts, staff remunerations, depreciation of assets and controversial contracts. Citing the achievements of the union, Prof Boshe pointed at the restoration of the depleted organic coffee market certificate, restoring the confidence of farmers who were cooperating with KNCU and establishing the Coffee Export Department.