DEPUTY Minister for Water Jumaa Aweso has directed managers of rural water authorities to address challenges affecting efficient water supply in rural areas. Officiating at a review meeting on a UK-funded fourth phase of payment by results programme, the deputy minister said although there had been positive headways in the implementation of water projects some councils had not been performing well. “There is a need to undertake a special review to understand factors pushing councils to underperform,” he said. “The board of directors must be ready to take action should there be problems as a result of reckless managers.” The government established the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Ruwasa) strategically targeting to improve the supervision of water projects as well as increase access and supply of water in rural areas. But the deputy minister noted that 153 water projects worth 66bn/- had not been implemented as intended. Besides, Mr Aweso said rural dwellers were tasked to pay as high as 5,000/- per water unit, while in urban areas such as Dar es Salaam the price per unit was only 1,800/-. “We’re after good results and this year we need all players to be active to ensure we deliver according to government promises.” Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, said for some years, engineers in some councils had artificially resigned with others ending to work as teachers. He said they had lost interest as the ministry was disorganised, “but I can confirm to you we’re much organised,” he said. Prof Mkombo went on to note that the government had so far released over 360bn/- from the 610 bn/- planned budget and the ministry was optimist that by December this year 85 per cent of rural dwellers would have access to water supply. UK Aid representative Getrude Mapunda noted that the challenge facing rural water authorities was lack of accurate data, continued water rationing and locked water points. She said challenges slowed effective access or supply of water in rural communities. “We suggest that the authorities develop appropriate systems that could ensure sustainable availability of water in the country.” Mr Clement Kivegalo, Director General for Rural and Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Ruwasa), announced that the authority had received £21.3m from the UK government to implement the fourth phase of payment by results programme.  