ENGAGING in homosexual activities, practicing polygamy and failure to undergo male circumcision are among the reasons behind high HIV/ Aids prevalence in Katavi Region, it has been stated. This was revealed recently by Katavi Region HIV/ Aids Coordinator, Mr Alex Mrema, during the launch of voluntary HIV testing campaign at night dubbed “Moonlight HIV Testing” in Mpanda District. According to Mr Mrema, statistics show that 60 percent of males in the region have not undergone male circumcision, a practice that also fuels new infections. HIV/ Aids prevalence in Katavi region stands at 5.9 per cent. “This new HIV prevalence is worrisome in the region as it has reached 5.9 per cent which stands second to Mbeya region with 9.4 per cent,” the regional coordinator added. He further said: “Very unfortunately majority of males in the region have not undergone male circumcision, something which contributes to new HIV infection.” According to Mr Mrema, three individuals who confessed to engage in homosexuality tested positive after undergoing HIV testing. They were introduced to the antiretroviral (ARVs) drugs after undergoing counselling. In details, the listed groups that are in great danger of contracting new HIV infection as long distance truck drivers, sexual workers, barmaids and adolescent boys and girls. Equally he further explained out of about 23,000 people who are living with HIV in Katavi Region only 20,000 are taking ARVs, and about 3,000 are not known where they are. “In a concerted effort to reach 3,000 people who are living with HIV, whose whereabouts are not known, the health sector in Katavi region has started a Moonlight HIV Testing campaign that targets to gather people at night “he explained. On her part the Katavi Regional Medical Officer RMO, Dr Justina Tizeba emphasized that Moonlight HIV Testing is in line with the government and stakeholders approach that by 2020, 90 percent of all people living with HIV will know their HIV status and by the same year, 90 percent of all people diagnosed with HIV will receive sustained antiretroviral therapy and by 2020 again, 90 percent of all people receiving antiretroviral therapy will have viral suppression. “ We have gathered here to introduce Moonlight HIV Testing campaign” added the RMO. Contributing the Mpanda Municipal Education Officer for Secondary Schools, Elenia Lutunguru said students’ population, being a big group is becoming highly vulnerable to the news HIV infections, because they are not using any sexual reproductive gears including condoms. “Though big, but this group has been neglected and forgotten ...they should be educated on the viable ways of using condoms as most of them don’t see the importance of applying them. “This could be one of the factors why Katavi region is leading in the country with high recorded rate of teenage pregnancies standing at 45 percent,” said Lutunguru.