MORE than 200 researchers are meeting at the University of Dodoma (UDOM) for the first International Conference of Development Studies in Dodoma Region to discuss research and development for two days. Director of UDOM’s Institute of Development Studies (IDS), Prof Julius Nyahongo, noted here yesterday that at least 50 papers will be presented during the sessions. “The deliberations from the conference will be submitted to the government to work on, especially challenges facing development in the country,” said the Director of IDS. With the theme Researching Development: Debates, Directions and Dilemmas, the two-day conference is jointly organised by UDOM, University of Dar es Salaam and the Finland-based University of Jyväskylä. However, Prof Nyahongo pointed out the topics to include- using action research to promote male involvement in maternal and child health: Experience of IMCHA programme in Iringa Region and Teaching and Learning Improvement with Information and Communication Technology. He mentioned other topics as the Impact of Contract Farming to the livelihood of Grapevine farmers in Dodoma and the influence of Climate Change on cashew nuts’ pests and disease and their adaptation strategies: A case of Mtwara District in Sothern Tanzania. While delivering an opening speech, Chemba District Commissioner, Mr Simon Odunga, who represented Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, underscored the importance of research in socio-economic development. “I am optimistic that this conference will seek to revitalise the debates about the roles and relevance of research in our contemporary development perspectives,” he remarked. Mr Odunga said the presentations that will add value to the development of the nation economically, politically and culturally, saying the conference is expected to be an ideal platform for researchers and academicians. On her part, Prof Tiina Kontinen from the University of Jyväskylä said it was very important to come together as researchers and share outcomes, adding: “Research is very important to show and improve conditions towards development, hence to analyze challenges,” she said.