TAIFA Stars striker Simon Msuva said discipline and determination are the two qualities which made him to excel in his football career, urging other young players to observe them. Msuva, who plays professional football with Moroccan side Difaa El Jadida, is among the known players, who emerged from local football academies to make it to the high level of their profession. Speaking yesterday via a telephone interview from Morocco, Msuva said that had it not been discipline and determination, he could not have managed to reach where he is now and be among the reliable senior team players. “As you know, I am a product of football academies which helped a lot to build the person I am today. I had a chance to be drilled by different coaches, who always appreciated my abilities,” he said. He particularly pointed out the former Taifa Stars coach, Kim Poulsen as his main motivator to accomplish his long term plans of playing professional football outside the country. “I came from his (Poulsen) hands and managed to learn basic football skills from him since he was willing to offer whatever he had to us such that those who grasped his lessons have managed to reach far as far as football is concerned,” he said. He added that as a result of Poulsen influence, he earned a chance to be called to play for the national team while he was still young and he managed to prove his worth despite competition from seniors in the squad. “My teammates used to encourage me that I had something special to offer, which is why, I never gave up but rather continued to do my part, while knowing that football was the only thing to take me further in life and I can now enjoy the fruits from the seeds sown,” he said. He continued: “I was never satisfied playing in Tanzania since my dream was to play outside the country no matter which club and where provided I crossed the borders.” In a related development, Msuva said Morocco is one of the best football nations in the world not by chance but rather due to massive investment they pump in the youth development. “Here, they take youth football programmes seriously such that when a player reaches 17 years old, his skills are extraordinary and there are many young players of good quality, who can even be included in the senior team and make a big impact,” he said. He therefore lauded the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for putting much attention in youth development programmes, an area he described as crucial for football development. “Tanzania has many talented players who simply need good environment to grow. The most important thing is to be serious in running youth academies for them to unearth more talents,” Msuva said. About his move to join Benfica, Msuva replied that the deal look uncertain because several things needs to be sorted out. “Initially, they wanted me to join Greece side Panathinaikos for free to be used as a route to Benfica of which our club president refused because he believes I have the potential to be sold and not to go there on free transfer hence the deal was not fulfilled,” he revealed.