RUKWA Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo, has directed investors constructing public buildings to ensure they also design facilities which allow people living with disabilities (PLWDs) to have easy access to the structures. The RC made such assertion recently here in the municipality while addressing a meeting that attracted more than 300 people with disabilities( PWDs) here, adding that it was regrettable that even the municipal structure that housed Sumbawanga Municipal Director...SMO was unfriendly to such group of individuals. The Daily News reporter who accompanied the disabled people under Tanzania Federation of Disabled People’s Organisations (SHIVYAWATA) to the municipal building witnessed how difficult it was for them to ascend the building’s stairs. Mr Wangabo remarked that it was inconceivable for people with disabilities to be denied access to public buildings just because of their condition while they too had the right to access services and other commodities. He further explained that special groups, including PLWDs, find it difficult to access toilet services in public structures. The RC further expressed dismay at the fact that many public buildings in the region were built without considering special cases of PLWDs. “This kind of weakness excludes PLWDs from getting services they deserve from such premises. This is unacceptable. It is our obligation to consider the needs of this special group” he added. On his part, the Sumbawanga Municipal Director SMD, Mr Jacob Mtalitinya told the gathering that the municipality has realized 90m/-as loans to 24 groups of women, 12 youths and three groups of PLWDs. Mr Mtalitinya further expounded that the said loans were part of their funds provided during the first quarter of 2019/20 Financial Year (FY). He further explained that during 2018/19, the municipality realised 253,228,000/- as loans to groups of women, youths and PLWDs. “Unfortunately, refunding of the borrowed funds is very poor and discouraging, as to date, only 99,070,100/-has so far been refunded, which is equivalent to 39 per cent of the borrowed 253,228,000/-free of interest,” explained Mr Mtalitinya.