LAST week, Dar es Salaam hosted what is now famously called Innovation Week. The event whose theme is ‘Innovate for Impact’ is organised by Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF) and other partners. This year’s event was the sixth and similar events are being anticipated in some other regions after the completion of Dar es Salaam activities. One of the attractive and crowd pulling event at the week-long innovation week was an all-women session which took place on the last day of the event. The session titled: “Building a successful pipeline for women innovators” was run by the UN-Women and Digital Opportunity Trust (dot Tanzania) and involved over 100 young girls and women innovators and those who aspires to become one. The hall was fully packed with almost exclusively women. The event involved a panel discussion, mentoring, discussions, sharing of thoughts and a song performance…all by women. Valuable advices were given at a panel discussion that involved Christine Musisi, Resident Representative at the UNDP; Fatma Fernandez, founder of Abel & Fernandes Co.; Araika Zewed, founder of Safe Space Group and Rebecca Young who is the founder of The Drum. Hodan Addou, UN Women Country Representative started by reminding the gathering how science and technology is crucial for business and improvement of people’s lives in rural areas in Africa and Tanzania in particular. In sub Saharan Africa, she said, women make up to 30 per cent of people engaging in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) carriers and that there is a need to make sure that industrial development is driven by having in place strong infrastructure and required systems. “Labour force particularly for girls and women should be prepared well by look at gaps and opportunities and ensuring that environment for their development is conducive for them to equally take part in innovation,” Addou noted. She explained that the UN Women in line with other agencies view innovation as about identifying new and effective solutions particularly to challenges on advancement of gender equality and economic opportunities for women and girls. In that front, UN Women work with local and central government, private sector and new organisations that come up with creative solutions to address issues on agriculture productivity, financial inclusion, women businesses and collective voices in terms of women participation in decision making at community level. Giving her advice to young girls aspiring to become innovators, Ms Araika preferred to put psychology on the map. For her, change of mind set is so important when it comes to innovation and a requisite to create a critical mass of women in to the area. “When we talk of innovation we have to understand our mind set,” she said, adding “This is an area we can no longer afford to miss out when we talk of innovation ecosystem funding.” For Araika, women have to understand and work on things that affect them as women first and foremost before their titles and positions. “There are unconscious behaviors we have because of stories we were told earlier by our elders and we have to do away with some of these to move forward,” she noted. Araika strongly feels that if efforts to empower women to be innovators, entrepreneurs and start businesses that will employ other women, it is so crucial to have a mindset element that change narratives and all things women were told when growing up on how a girl must behave and live. “We have to erase narratives that are not helping a girl to move forward,” she stressed. Ms Christine implored young women to educate themselves and take advantage of so many opportunities found online for that matter. “Go online and educate yourself,” the UNDP Representative said. She also called on girls to volunteer to learn, saying that if they cannot follow, they cannot lead well. She also pointed out the art of building networks and making sure that girls have something to bring to the table as another important thing for them to prosper. “It is not all about extraction. It is about meeting people even if it is not half way, but quarter way and say hey you have got that but I have this. And you do have things to share,” said Christine amid cheers from the girls, adding: “What you invest in will bring you gains and multiply. So, sow your seeds when they need to be sowed.” She told the girls to never be afraid to use their networks and friendships to advance their agendas. Fatma advised the girls to embrace their failure and take it as a step toward their success. She said: “Treat every thing as a learning point to your journey. When you fail, woke up, dust yourself and tell yourself that you will do better tomorrow. Some days you won’t smile but others you will and I believe if we take life that way, we are going to get to our destination that we want in our lives.” Rebecca noted that young girls in Tanzania should be inspired but they should not be influenced by people to become what they want to be. “Don’t put yourselves inside the box. Take as many experiences as you can but don’t try and force yourself into something just because you see other people become successful into that route. That might not be your route,” she said. For her, if a girl like something and have a passion about it, that is a way to go. She concluded by telling girls to stay safe, healthy, be good and pursue their goals.