BERNARD Morrison’s spectacular shot in the first half decided the day as Young Africans beat Simba 1-0 in a thrilling Mainland Premier League match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday. President John Magufuli and the President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) Ahmad Ahmad witnessed the match at the venue, which was packed to the brim. As expected, the match brought a lot of excitement and disappointment to winners and losers respectively. Regardless, Simba still sit top of the league table with 68 points from 27 matches, while Yanga moved to third on 50 points from 25 outings. Azam are second on 51 points from 27 matches. It was Yanga’s first derby win in three seasons over rivals Simba. When the match did finally get going, Yanga started much the brighter side and they were in control, taking possession and knocking the ball from side to side, while Simba started slightly on a back foot. Morrison nearly prodded the ball from Pascal Wawa after just seconds but he fluffed with a chance before Erasto Nyoni cleared the lines. It took Simba five minutes to come into the picture and Clatous Chama’s cross nearly found Meddie Kagere in space but goalkeeper Metacha Mnata came off his line to fist the ball away. In the 10th minute, Ditram Nchimbi cut back cross in the box caught Simba defenders flat footed and Nyoni slipped only for Morrison to latch onto the ball but his shot was timely blocked by Mohamed Hussein. Yanga, who came into the game with much determination and aggression, maintained their ascendency and in the 12th minute, Nchimbi’s fierce shot narrowly missed the target. Head Coach Luc Eymael deployed pivotal holding midfield of Feisal Salum and Papy Tshishimbi and it paid off as Yanga were in control of the midfield winning most of the second balls as Simba’s Chama, Francis Kahata struggled to display their usual silky movement at the pack of the midfield. Simba suffered a huge blow in the 22nd minute, when Nyoni failed to continue with the match after picking an injury. He was replaced by Kennedy Juma, who had a great game. After half an hour mark, Simba captured the control of the game and they missed a clear cut chance when Luis Miquissone initial shot was parried off by Metacha Mnata and the keeper stood firm to block another follow up shot from Chama before Bocco fired wide from the third attempt. In the 36th minute, Shomari Kapombe made a solo run past bush of defenders and set up Bocco, whose shot was timely blocked by Said Makapu to corner kick. Three minutes later, Simba missed yet another clear chance. Kahata set up Kagere and the bull striker fired a fierce shot that beat Mnata but came off the left bar and Miquissone’s follow up shot was blocked by keeper. Simba were punished for their ineptness two minutes before the breather, when Morrison put Yanga ahead with a bullet set piece 25 metres away that precisely beat Manula. The foul was awarded to Yanga after Jonas Mkude had fouled the Ghanaian forward. After break, Simba started in ascendency but were building up slowly and in the 56th Morrison limped off the field after picked a knock and was replaced by Patrick Sibomana. Simba also called in Deo Kanda for Kahata but it was Yanga who threatened and almost netted the second, when Nchimbi’s shot was cleared by Manula. In the 70th minute Hassan Dilunga replaced misfiring Kagere and Deus Kaseke came in for Balama. Two minutes before the final whistle, Kanda wasted a chance to pull level when he arrived at Kapombe’s pass but his shot was blocked by the keeper