TANZANIA recorded a surge in the number of coronavirus cases after five more people were confirmed yesterday to have contracted the disease, sending yet another stark reminder that the public must adhere to recommended preventive guidance. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu (pictured) confirmed the rise of COVID- 19 cases from the previous 14 to 19 as of yesterday whebriefing on coronavirus outbreak status. Ms Mwalimu noted that the new reported cases were diagnosed at the National Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) laboratory, and reiterated the need for joint-efforts in the fight against further spread of the novel virus. Of the five infected patients, three cases have been recorded in Dar es Salaam City and two in Zanzibar, revealed the Health Minister, who identified the new victims as two males aged 49 and a 21-year old female, all Tanzanian nationals. According to Ms Mwalimu one of the two men caught the virus after he came into contact with a foreigner from the affected country. The other two were among contacts that were being monitored. “Contact tracing is continuing to establish whether the contacts who are currently being monitored have been affected or not,” she noted. Again, the minister called upon the public to continue taking all the precautionary measures against the deadly disease. The two cases reported from Zanzibar took the Isles’ tally to five patients. The Zanzibar Minister for Health Hamad Rashid Mohamed yesterday emphasised self- quarantine for people including government leaders returning from abroad. “Tests have confirmed that two more people in Zanzibar, both Tanzanians, have caught the coronavirus. Both contracted the disease from their relatives who recently returned home. We urge members of families to avoid contact with people returning home from abroad,” Mr Mohamed said. The Isles health minister warned that the coronavirus was spreading due to carelessness among members of the public and returnees who ignored calls to selfisolate. “It is really sad that people are not adhering to the precautions,” stated the minister. Mr Mohamed who was in Pemba yesterday to inspect preparation for coronavirus including a new treatment centre reiterated his call for social distancing as the best way to avoid the disease. Last Saturday, the minister announced restricting foreigners and citizens returning home. The move was to prevent the importation of the COVID-19 and safeguard the local population. As part of efforts to curb the spread, the government has ordered a mandatory 14-day quarantine to whoever comes to Tanzania from countries that have been affected by coronavirus. On different occasions, top leaders have been encouraging Tanzanians to always adhere to recommended preventive measures, including hand washing with soap and clean water every time. The Prime Minister, Mr Kassim Majaliwa recently urged people to avoid mass gathering and overcrowding in buses, since that would help avoid direct body contacts that increase the chances of contracting the virus He reiterated the importance of social distancing among people whenever they go for any service at shops or markets. Globally, as of yesterday, there were around 739,367 cases with over 35,000 deaths, while the number of those who have recovered stands at 156,402. The high death rate is in Italy and Spain