VODACOM Tanzania in collaboration with Universal Communication Services Fund (UCSAF) are set to promote digital literacy in schools across the country leveraging on its vast network infrastructure. That was said by the Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Elias Kwandikwa in Dodoma Region over the weekend, adding that quality education would prepare the young generation to move ahead in the digital age. “The government through UCSAF brought ICT and Vodacom Tanzania currently connects our schools with internet, this will allow teachers and pupils/students to secure more materials for learning. “This partnership will see over 81,500 pupils in 163 Primary and Secondary Schools by the end of the project in 2020 reached with computer skills and internet connectivity. “Through this initiative, more than 2,500 students from Chikola, Membe, Intela, Mumi and Mazae Secondary Schools in Dodoma Region will benefit from use of computers and free internet connectivity following a Vodacom and UCSAF partnership, that has so far donated 806 computers, printers and routers to various primary and secondary schools across the country, ” he said. On his part, Vodacom Tanzania, Managing Director, Hisham Hendi said that the donation is part of a wider Vodacom agenda to promote quality learning through digital platforms with focus on rural Tanzania. “As Vodacom, we believe in a future where technology levels the playing field bringing connectivity and an opportunity for everyone to reach their full potential and the education sector is the starting point”. “We are delighted to collaborate with the government to ensure more people are engaged in today’s digital age. In addition to the computers donation we are also providing connectivity through free routers and internet to the schools for one year,” he said. On her part, UCSAF Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Justina Mashiba said: “We appreciate this partnership with Vodacom to ensure our initiative succeeds by connecting public schools with access to internet to fully utilize ICT facilities. “This donation is supporting our mission to ensure communication services are accessible everywhere especially in remote communities.”