WHEN our ‘legend’ politician, Madam Gertrude Ibengwe Mongella was spear-heading the famous ‘1995 United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women’ in Beijing, a young girl by the name of Sophia was somewhere in Njombe still struggling to begin her long journey of education, aiming to fulfil her dream, “just don’t want and will never accept my disability to stop me from achieving my dream!” As the world marks the 25th anniversary of Beijing, that young girl is now Madam SOPHIA GEHAZY MBEYELA, already an experienced teacher at Makumbusho Secondary School, in Dar-esSalaam. She is a motivation speaker, Executive Director and Chairperson of PLPDF (Peace, Life for People with Disability Foundation). The lady is also a Businesswoman (Madam Sophy Fast Food & Fresh Juice) at Ubungo, junction Sam Nujoma road and Chuo Kikuu. ‘Madam SOPHY’ as she is preferably called by her students and other people around, is practically and fearlessly walking the talk of Beijing. “I am dedicating my life to empower girls and women to find their passion and purpose in life as well as shift their negative mind-set.” Indeed, the “SUPERWOMAN” indication on her T-shirt, clarifies her awareness about March the 8th 2020, of this year’s International Women’s Day. This amazing woman is just equipped with everything; charm, smart, beauty, decent, positive attitude and you name it! I bet, any confrontation with ‘Madam Sophia’ will make you completely forget about her clutches. Sophia is the last born to Mzee Gehazy Mbeyela and Mama Agnes Mbeyela of Njombe. She suffers from Osteogenesis Impertecta, caused by defective genes that leads to having weak breakable bones. “I have an elder brother and a sister, both of them are not disabled.” Although she was born in Njombe (1989), Sophia’s initial confrontation with her long education journey was in Iringa, at Mlandege Primary School. However, due to her disability, after just a year, she was moved to a special school for disabled children (Salvation Army School at Kurasini, Dares-Salaam) until 2003. For her O-level, Sophia spent her four years (until 2007) successfully at Jangwani Secondary School, just within Dar city centre. However, for her A-level Sophia had to travel up to Dakawa High School, in Morogoro. There, her leadership quality began to emerge “I ended up being the leader of Tanzania Youth Catholic Student at school until our graduation in 2010.” Sophia’s next stage was St. John’s University in Dar-es-Salaam “for my Bachelor (Degree) of Arts with Education between 2010 and 2013.” There again, throughout her studies, Sophia was a Member of student’s Parliament as well as Vice Chairperson of Youth of United Nations Association. Soon after graduation, Sophia acquired a teaching post in Lindi but couldn’t go there “because of my disability and the working environment over there. Instead, Sophia was sent to teach at Makumbusho Secondary School. “A fantastic school with exemplary students and staff, despite some initial minor and understandable challenges.” Sophia’s thirst for higher Education was still there! While teaching at Makumbusho, she joined the Open University for her ‘Masters (Degree) of Educational Administration Policy and Planning’ (2017 to 2019). Ms SOPHIA MBEYELA has already achieved prestigious national and International Awards: 2017 ‘Malkia wa Nguvu Award,’ again 2017 (Inspiration Icon) and Pan African Awards, 2017 (Humanitarian and Social Justice). Madam Sophy is a Board Member of the Tanzania Entrepreneurship and competitiveness Centre as well as a Board member of ‘Mulika Tanzania Foundation. Besides, this ’role model’ Madam Sophy has volunteered for YUNA- TZ (Youth of United Nation Association), UNFPA and other organizations for years before she founded her organization: PLPDF (‘Peace Life for People with Disability Foundation),’) an organization that seek to empower people with disabilities in Tanzania.’ “You are all welcome, especially those with disabilities.” Although the ‘International Women’s Day’ is celebrated on March 8, the PLPDF has plans for March the 28th to celebrate the Women’s Day of this year at the ‘Sayansi Building - Kijitonyama. Well, it is known all over that Disability is not inability “and as my ‘sister’ Lilian Mwasha pointed out that ‘it can be done, just play your part!’ Obviously, I ‘m playing my part too! Now, how about you?” Aaach ‘Madam SOPHY,’ please just keep on opening our eyes and ears by making “Everyday” become “women’s day.” you are absolutely worthy to be illustrated. -------------------------------- David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com