WHILE the g o v e r n - m e n t w o r k s round the clock to address menstrual hygiene and management among adolescent schoolgirls countrywide, Moshi based Kishumundu Primary School in Uru East Ward, Moshi District, in Kilimanjaro region has made a big step towards this after introducing a special hygiene facility for adolescent school girls. The facility is part of the school’s new modern hygiene management facility which was constructed at the school and launched by Mr Raphael Choma on behalf of the Moshi District Council (MDC) District Executive Director (DED), Kastori Msigala over the weekend. Briefing the guest of honour, one of the donors of the school’s hygiene project, Eng Fulgence Tingitana said the project’s committee had put into consideration adolescent school girls’ menstrual hygiene challenges to compliment government efforts concerning the issue. “The committee decided to introduce this facility after it was discovered that many school girls missed classes during menstruation because the toilets are dirty. “In this new facility, they will have no fear because they will be able to wash and change their uniforms here, where they will have access to sanitary pads. We don’t want to hear cases of girls missing classes because of menstruation challenges,” he said. In her briefing to the guest of honor, the Kishumundu Village Executive Director (VEO), Ms Sarafath Issa said apart from a special area to serve the school girls, the new hygiene facility will also house special toilet facilities to pupils living with disabilities. “A total of 36,239,080/- was used to construct the facility, and these funds were raised by residents of Kishumundu and supported by other donors from both inside and outside the country,” she said. She named some of the donors from outside the country as Bishop James Zinzow from Canada, Ms Sarah Temba Merchand and Mr Gabriel Merchand from Paris, France, and other alumni of the school which was established in 1938,” she said. On his part, Mr Choma, hailed all those who facilitated the construction of the modern facility, especially by considering the plight of adolescent school girls and those living with disabilities. “Regarding the Menstrual Hygiene and Management among adolescent schoolgirls, you have proved your worth for a school which is more than 80 years, this is so special, and I hope other schools will borrow a leaf from you because this is a national issue”, he said. Uru East Ward Executive Director (WED), Ms Happy Balega thanked the people of the ward for the solidarity they showed during the project, and urged them to continue with the same spirit in other areas of the development processes within the ward