KILIMANJARO-based driver, Guljit Dhani has brought in an ultrafast Skoda Fabia as he tables his bid to win Vaisakhi Rally, the season opener scheduled to rev off in Monduli, Arusha on March 16th. Dhani will lead the Harri Singh quartet in Vaisakhi Rally which also serves as the first round of this year’s National Rally Championship (NRC). Other members of the team also confirmed to race for the event’s top honours are Rajpar Dhani, Ajminder Singh and Mandeep Singh, all three will be competing Subaru Imprezas. “It is good, fast and well balanced for all-terrain challenges,” said Dhani who added that new racing machine is tailor- made for the dusty routes of Monduli area, the main venue of the first rally of 2020. Despite being the event’s notable participants, Harri Singh brothers are also among the co-sponsors of the national level rally showpiece, according to the team. Elaborating, Dhani said his ultra-modern racing car will be tested against Mitsubishi Evo X, Ford Fiesta proto and Subaru Impreza, the car makes that have dominated East African rallies for over a decade. Skoda Fabia has been unbeatable in the dusty terrains of East Africa since it was first introduced by a Kenyan Manvir Baryan three years ago. Gurjit becomes the first Tanzanians to compete in the national rally championship with Skoda and his presence likely to spice up the Vaisakhi Rally Challenge in Arusha. The season opener is being organised by Arusha Motor Sports Club (AMSC) and according to the chief organiser Manmeet Singh everything is in place and he expects drivers from in and outside the country to race for the event’s glories. He said Sikh Community and its associates are the chief sponsors of the event whose main venue is areas around Monduli District, West of Arusha city. Among the notable entries expected included Zambian and Africa’s top navigator David Sihoka who will guide Gurpal Sandhu from Arusha in Mitsubishi Evo 10 while from Kenya they expect Absalom Aswani to navigate Mandeep Singh According to the organisers, drivers will be heading to Arusha from clubs based in Dar es Salaam, Iringa, Morogoro, Tanga and Kilimanjaro.