ITALY has promised that a huge number of its nationals will be touring Tanzania to explore the beauty of country’s nature and view tourist attractions in national parks and Ngorongoro Conservation Area. Italian Ambassador to Tanzania, Roberto Mengoni promised Arusha Regional Commissioner (RC) Mrisho Gambo after a meeting in the latter’s office for talks before winding up an Italian project in Arumeru District. Mr Mengoni promised that his government would see the trips organised and would give specific dates in due time. He promised after discussing at length with Mr Gambo on how secure Arusha was and the chairman of the defence and security committee assured the ambassador of security and safety in the city and region at large. Mr Mengoni revealed that he and his family had toured Ngorongoro, going down to witness the jewel in its crown that was a deep, volcanic crater, the largest un-flooded and unbroken caldera in the world. He said his passion was at its climax when he experienced the infrastructure in the conserved area that measured about 20km across, 600m deep and 300 square kilometres in the area as breath-taking natural wonder. The RC promised that when the tourists made it to Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) his defence and security committee would provide escort to the city centre. He assured all foreigners that Arusha and Tanzania generally was a peaceful place, they would not regret if they visited it because its tourist attractions were unforgettable. He called upon all tourism stakeholders-tour guides and porters and members of the public-to be patriotic by using well social media and other tools to market the country’s resources. He expressed his reservations over some people who told tourists that infrastructure in the conserved areas was not good so they should wait until it was improved. Mr Gambo told the audience at the RC Hall that when tourists came in huge numbers, it was Tanzanians who would benefit from it. He said that such were opportunities to offer services such as hotel accommodation, transport, food and even selling goods to them and increase their incomes. “If they come and enjoy, it means you will also benefit from that due to sales of goods and services. Even women and the youth will benefit by selling vegetables, fruits and other things,” said Mr Gambo, calling on members of the public to show hospitality to tourists visiting the country.