THE wave of coronavirus is disrupting timetables in many spheres, the latest being suspension of the 4th meeting of the Third Session of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA). With three out of six member countries reporting several cases of the deadly virus, EALA decided to call off the three-week plenary session that was to take place at the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), in Arusha from this month. At its 45th meeting held here on Friday, the EALA Commission noted with concern that the novel Coronavirus disease continues to spread at an alarming level globally, including within the EAC region, with Tanzania, Kenya and Rwanda having patients already. In light of the situation, the EALA Commission chaired by EALA Speaker, Mr Martin Ngoga, suspended the session as a precautionary measure to prevent any risk of contracting Covid-19. “Given the nature of the Assembly’s work that involves travel and meetings, there is ample evidence that such plenary gathering can increase the risk of transmission of the Covid-19,” EALA Speaker, Mr Ngoga said. Meanwhile, each EALA Chapter shall remain in its own partner state and engage with various stakeholders in-country. EALA has legislative functions as well as oversight of all EAC matters. The postponement comes after EAC suspended with immediate effect all its meetings due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. EAC Secretary General, Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko said in his letter that given the nature of EAC work that involves travel, and the mode of delivery through meetings and conferences, there is ample evidence that such gatherings could increase the risk of transmission of infectious diseases, including Covid-19. Suspending the meetings, Ambassador Mfumukeko said that the EAC Secretariat would take various measures to prevent any risk of importation or contracting of the virus. He ruled that all EAC meetings – statutory and otherwise – for all organs, institutions and project implementation units are suspended until further notice. Organisers of meetings have been ordered to use video conferencing or other available virtual facilities as much as possible. He noted that all international meetings and conferences with delegates from countries at high risk of Covid-19 are suspended until further notice. The Burundian diplomat said that all critical or essential meetings, more particularly those related to health or security engagements, should be allowed through a written waiver after assessment and approval by management and will be organised in accordance with health guidelines issued by the respective EAC partner states. He discouraged non-essential personal travel or local travel.