NMB bank will see into it that reaches over 300,000 farmers countrywide with free bank’s accounts’ opening especially cotton growers in Simiyu Region in this planting season and provide them also with loans. That was said over the weekend by NMB bank Western Zone Manager, Sospeter Magesse, while meeting Simitu Region business community who met Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Investment, Angella Kairuki in the area to discuss challenges facing them. He further said that the bank has put in place a strategy to follow the farmers right into their villages countrywide, and open for them accounts free of charge, which would enable them enjoy banking services including payments for their crops in this season. Mr Magesse further noted that the strategy would be carried out hurriedly before June in the next 2020 planting season. Elaborating, the Manager said that with the government insisting that farmers open bank accounts for their payments in this year’s season; his financial institution was well placed to implement the directive. Equally, he said that the bank has put in place strategies to improve agricultural sector in the country, including the ongoing loans to the farmers. “We are continuing to support the government to improve the agricultural sector and as a reputable bank in the country, we assist different farmers of cotton, cashew nut, coffee, tobacco and many others cultivating food crops like maize,” added Mr Magesse. However, he asked the farmers to fully make use of the bank’s services for their financial obligations, adding that the financial institution is safe in the country, where the government has 30 percent share, besides friendly and considerable loans they would be getting. On his part, Simiyu Regional Commissioner, (RC), Antony Mtaka asked the bank to fast track the farmers’ accounts opening, because the next cotton planting season is not far away. He said that already the government has enlightened and directed the farmers to open bank accounts, hence; it was now the responsibility of the bank to see into it that it woos and completes the action by also following them in their villages.