THE Vice-President Samia Suluhu recently urged women entrepreneurs to grab bank loan opportunities to expand and grow in businesses. She made the piece of advice in Simiyu Region after being told that CRDB Bank has already issued 500bn/-to women entrepreneurs across the country. That was in her Simiyu Region official tour during the climax of Women’s Day, adding that entrepreneurs should go for the CRDB’s Women Access to Financial Initiative (WAFI) and on visiting the bank’s pavilion, where she was further briefed on their activities especially those, which target women. “Let me take this opportunity to entice women to take loans offered by CRDB’s WAFI. This loan will minimize challenges women experience in capital to start businesses,” she said, while urging the bank to improve and simplify principle of obtaining WAFI loans to attract many customers. Briefing the VP on the success of WAFI, CRDB Lake Z one Manager Lusing Sitta said the bank has issued out loans of about 500bn/-to women across the country. “We are proud to see a number of women, who have come forward to take the WAFI loans. “The bank target to uplift women wellbeing and enable them to improve their businesses and their products and as well compete in the market,” Mr Sitta told the VP CRDB, according to Mr Sitta also introduced to the market two more products targeting to uplift women business namely Jubilee and Malikia Account where 25,000 women have since been registered. “Malkia is a special saving account that enables women to reach their ambitious like elevating their education levels and paying for their children’s fees,” Mr Sitta said. Earlier last week, the bank ahead of the International Women Day joined other institutions globally to cerebrate day at it’s headquarters along Azikiwe Street in Dar es Salaam. The celebration was aimed at raising voices in the public to have equally job opportunity to all genders. Speaking during the event, CRDB Managing Director Abdulmajid Nsekela said the bank highly values equal job opportunities for all, where currently they have 46 percent of women as staff, adding: “Our wish is to reach 50 per cent,” Mr Nsekela said.