AS Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA) predicts heavy rains in many parts of the country especially in Central Zone. Issuing an advisory warning of likelihood of more intense in the next few days. It is important for the citizens living in valleys and precarious areas to be watchful. The torrential rains which started Monday evening have destroyed infrastructures and disrupted transport, with a Mkange Bridge in Kilosa District along Morogoro-Dodoma highway washed out, thus, cutting communication between the two regions. This is one case to show that such rains cause havoc as further explained by TMA’s Manager for Weather Forecasting Services, Mr Samuel Mbuya, that the onset of masika (long rainy) season can not be avoided. The meteorologist mentioned some of the regions which are likely to receive the rains as Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Manyara, Iringa, Njombe, Tanga, Morogoro, Coast, Unguja and Pemba Islands and with this warning, people living in low lying areas should take heed of leaders advice to move. Like the authority further said on its website, Mr Mbuya further advises members of the public to make close follow up on updates they issue so that they can take required precautions. People should be told time and again that heavy rainfall as nature taking its course, can lead to numerous hazards. For example: Flooding, including risk to human life, damage to buildings and infrastructure and loss of crops and livestock and landslides, which can threaten human life, disrupt transport and communications and cause damage to buildings and infrastructure. On the same note, people should be reminded to get out of low areas earlier enough. Especially places which are prone to flooding, because insisting to stay in such places is like one experimenting with one’s life. Equally, they should avoid already-flooded areas and not attempt to cross flowing water either on foot or driving, because as little as six inches of water can cause one to lose control of a vehicle. The same call requires that people should stay away from power lines and electrical wires. This game of returning to low lying areas prone to floods after rains subsides should be avoided, because it is expensive and risky for the individuals. They should think of Msimbazi River as a living example in Dar es Salaam that has not been friendly to its neighbor during the rainy seasons. With depressing regularity, the river breaks its banks and inundates houses built on its low-lying floodplains. For example in 2014, 600 houses were flooded in the riverine with Kigogo Ward alone witnessing 13 being completely destroyed.