DIPLOMATS have commended the initiative to introduce the Diplomatic Golf Tournament in the country saying it firmly cements regional cooperation and sportsmanship. Ministry for Foreign Affair and East Africa Cooperation and Zanzibar Tourism Board are the brainstorm of the event that its first edition held in Zanzibar last year with second edition scheduled for May 30 this year at Kili Golf in Arusha. Deputy Foreign Minister, Damas Ndumbaro, who has masterminded the unique tournament, said over the weekend in Dar es Salaam that the Diplomatic Golf tournament has already done a good job in unifying East Africa. As part of his preparation for the second edition of the Diplomatic Golf to be held in Arusha in May, Ndumbaro staged a 18- hole golf showpiece at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club course over the weekend with Michael Dunford, the World Food Programme (WFP) Representative and the French Ambassador to Tanzania Frederic Clavier. In an interview with the ‘ Daily News’ after a round with the envoys, Ndumbaro said it was a very exciting play and all three enjoyed playing there. He said he and his colleagues were keen to play in the second edition of the Diplomatic level tournament. Ndumbaro said: “The second edition of Diplomatic Golf that will be open for Diplomats, Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), and other golfers from East African countries as the preparation for the event is on a top gear.” “We are grateful that sponsors have already shown interest to bankroll the event, but the door is open for others to join as well to make it a big success.” He added: “It is game that aim of the event is to bring Diplomats together, it is also an opportunity to Members of Parliament (MPs), Ministers and others golfers to come together for the health wellbeing. “We used to see them in smart attire, but it would be interesting to see them wearing shorts, T-shirt and caps while playing golf, they are welcome.” Dunford who grossed 104 strokes defeated Ndumbaro by a single shot to win the weekend battle. He said after winning that  he enjoyed the game as he knows golf is always about practice, but as well a wonderful way to relax and have goof discussion. “Am excited about what has been proposed on the Diplomatic golf event, I think that will give us an opportunity to come together, compete on a golf course and also enjoy company. I think that will improve opportunity for good diplomatic relations.” Dunford added: “I would like to encourage all diplomats to come to Kili Golf course for the event as am sure it is going to be a wonderful event.” He also complimented the Ministry of foreign affairs for taking initiative to organise this event as he thinks it willl give them an opportunity to engage in the sport and explore opportunity of working together. “Iam pleased with this initiative probably the United National Food Program will be presented in this programme.” Clavier stressed that he was very happy to play golf at DGC and thanked Ndumbaro for invite him and his initiative to organise Diplomatic Golf since it is very important in promoting the sport.