FOREIGN players playing for Dar es Salaam-based giants; Simba, Young Africans and Azam who travelled to their countries face a 14-day quarantine prior to the Premier League resumption. According to the government directives, anyone entering the country must be quarantined for 14 days as a measure to control the spread of coronavirus in the country. According to the directives issued by President John Magufuli on Sunday, a player will be responsible to foot quarantine costs himself or herself during the whole period. In retrospect, the President of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) had earlier warned that players who leave the country at this time when the Premier League and other leagues are stopped, won’t be allowed to play again until the season ends, a statement that seems to differ with what President JPM said. Clubs to be mostly affected by the directive are Simba, Young Africans and Azam. From Azam players who have remained in the country are Richard Djoin and Obrey Chirwa, while the rest such as Never Tigere , Donald Ngoma, Nico Wadada, Bruce Kangwa, Yakubu Mohamed and the head coach Aristica Cioaba likely to be quarantined when they return. Four players serving the top riders Simba will be affected by the directive as they went home for a vacation after league suspension last week . The list includes the top scorer Meddie Kagere , midfield maestro Clatous Chama while others are Papy Tshishimbi and his coach Luc Eymael who is said to have returned to Belgium for a wedding ceremony. Meanwhile, reports Alexander Sanga from Mwanza that the relegation threatened Mbao FC are finally on the market and are worth 350m/-. The leadership of the club announced the deal while admitting that they are going through serious financial difficulties. Briefing the ‘Daily News’ here yesterday, a member of the team’s administrative committee Masalida Njashi disclosed that they are in discussion with a possible buyer who is interested to take charge of the team. “It is true that the club is being sold at 350m/-and as I speak with you, we are still in discussion with a potential buyer such that by tomorrow, everything concerning this issue will be known,” he said. He added that once the team has been bought, the new owner will be compelled to pay three months salaries of players which is yet to be settled. On his part, Mbao FC skipper Emmanuel Lukinda is not aware about the deal since they are on holiday but he insisted that even if the club is sold, they are ready to work with the new owner ahead of their remaining eight matches. It has been a very difficult season for the Mwanza based side in the Mainland Premier League season as they currently accommodate 19th slot on the table with 23 points after 29 games. They are six points behind 18th placed Alliance FC also from Mwanza who are also not safe from the relegation battle. They got promoted into the senior league in 2015 and have since been fighting hard to escape relegation which saw them ending the last season on 16th place with 45 points.