SEA Cliff Resort & Spa Golf Club of Mangapwani, Zanzibar has announced the cancellation of their latest golf tournament and re-arranged practice rounds at the course due to the outbreak of the coronavirus. The organisers stressed that the health of golfers, staff and all other individuals was always their top priority. The club’s Manager Elias Soka said from Zanzibar yesterday that they could not host the Rotary Golf Day due to be held March 21 this year. The annual charity tournament that is organised by Rotary Club of Zanzibar and hosted at the club is among prestigious annual event that targets to benefit those in need in the Isles. Among the event beneficiary according to one of organisers Sjani Muggenburg is Makunduchi Hospital, managed by HIPZ and the Ministry of Health. “We have cancelled the tournament due to COVID- 19,” he said. In his communications to golfers, Soka added that: “As you know, the safety and well-being of our guests, staff and colleagues is always a top priority. “In the light of the evolving COVID-19 situation, we have made a difficult decision to suspend normal hotel operations until further notice,” he said. Soka stressed that they will keep the golf course Open for members and Zanzibar residents for them to practice, but they will adjusted their times. “We will open the course for residents only, but proper social distancing is prioritised,” he added. Soka noted that the first tee off for the practice round will be at 8Am, while the last tee off is set for 3Pm. “The course is strictly for nine holes only, and all tee times must be booked in advance,” said Soka. The club manager however, added that driving range will close at 4pm for those who would like to practice there. “We wish you and your loved ones good health during these difficult times,” said Soka. After Rotary Golf Day cancellation, the other coming event that awaits the fate is Easter Golf Tournament that is scheduled for Sunday April 26th this year. Coronavirus pandemic has affects many sectors and sports all over the world are among areas that has been serious hit. All local and international competitions have either been suspended, rescheduled or cancelled altogether.