IN efforts to improve justice in the country, President Ali Mohamed Shein has said that formation of the Justice Stakeholders Forum (JSF) and the making of Law School policy, are underway. “We should be proud of good governance and ongoing reforms that aim at improving the judiciary system. the government fully backs JSF and policy on law school which will further pave way in search for justice,” Shein said. In a meeting with executives from the Ministry of Constitution and Legal Affairs on quarterly implementation of its work plan, Dr Shein asked them to improve legal aid services along with emphasis on translating in simple Kiswahili language for the consumers/clients and ordinary people. Dr Shein also commended the law reform commission for continuing to review outdated laws and the Kadhis office for lessening divorces and family disputes which normally end in conflicts, and Gender Based Violence (G BV ). Meanwhile, Dr Shein has urged adults to turn up in large numbers and register to vote during the ongoing mass registration, promising to solve challenges which have emerged during the exercise. In a spontaneous meeting with reporters after updating his data as a voter for the 2020 general elections at Bungi Primary School, Central District in Unguja South region, Dr Shein directed respective bodies to ensure all eligible Zanzibari’s get the right to vote in the next elections. The Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) is updating the voters register for the planned general elections later this year, while the Zanzibar Civil Status Registration Agency (ZCSRA) has been issuing Zanzibar Resident Identification card-ZanId prerequisite to get registered as voter. Since the issuing of the ZanIDs started in Pemba two months ago, along ZEC’s updating of the voters register (which include registering new voters), complaints about many people not getting the Ids dominated the exercise. “Those who have not received their ZanID should be patient, all the eligible Zanzibaris will get the IDs and get registered for the coming elections. If you deserve it you definitely get it,” Dr Shein said at the ZEC center for updating voters register. He was accompanied by his wife, mama Mwanamwema Shein. He emphasized on the need for everyone to register, saying that the government is prepared to ensure free and fair elections and peaceful handover to “My successor who I strongly believe will come from the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).” “We are prepared to guarantee security so that the election process is conducted in a peaceful way,” Dr Shein said as he directed ZEC and ZCSRA to work closely on issues that have emerged during the ongoing updating of the voters register, particularly those without ZanID.