AMID intensified coronavirus preparations, Tanzania registered the first confirmed case of the novel virus on Tuesday. With the virus rapidly spreading globally, it was apparently a question of when rather than not. With neighbouring countries Kenya and Rwanda confirming their first COVID-19 cases over the weekend, the monster was looming large. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ms Ummy Mwalimu, informed the nation that a Tanzanian woman, who has just arrived back from Belgium, tested positive. According to the minister, the patient who is aged 46 left the country for Belgium on March 3, this year and that she also visited Sweden and Denmark before going back to Belgium. She returned to Tanzania on Sunday, March 15, this year from Belgium aboard Rwandair flight, landing at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) around 4pm. Upon her arrival, she was screened in a thermal scanner. By that time, her temperature was normal but she was coughing. “But the woman was skeptical of her health condition because in Belgium, she was hosted by a family whose one of members had been affected by Coronavirus. So upon arrival at KIA, she decided to have self isolation instead of going directly to her home,” said the minister, referring to her conversation with the patient over the phone. She went to lock herself in a hotel room for a while, before later on going to the Mount Meru Hospital for treatment. Her sample would eventually be tested at the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) where the finding proved that she was infected with COVID-19. It was likely the novel coronavirus, which originated in China before tightening its global grip, would strike at some point and the government had long embarked on preparedness. The minister asked Tanzanians to keep calm as the government is doing all that is needed to contain the situation, noting that the patient was doing well. “This is a reported case and we are on it already to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread further,” insisted the minister. This case makes Tanzania the 26th African country to have confirmed penetration of the case, with the World Health Organisation (WHO), hailing the government for announcing it publicly. As part of preventive measures against further spreading of the virus, the government has reminded people to keep sanitising their hands and avoid shaking hands. “Already we have received 500m/- to intensify the fight against coronavirus,” she stated. Tanzania’s major international airports — Julius Nyerere International Airport, Abeid Amani Karume International Airport, Mwanza Airport and Kilimanjaro International Airport, one of the main gateway for tourists— are screening incoming passengers for the virus. The East African nation’s official border crossings, additional measures have been implemented to thoroughly screen travellers. The meetings of the senior officials from member states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) kicked off yesterday in style, through video conference as the regional body controls spread of the disease. The senior officials meeting are held as preparations to the conference of the Council of Ministers slated for tomorrow, with Tanzanian Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa the guest of honour. The ministers will also participate in the meeting through video conference from their countries in line with the recent recommendation by the council of SADC ministers responsible for Health. Tuesday’s meeting was graced by Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Ambassador, Colonel Wilbert Ibuge, who among other things, called for member countries to intensify the fight against COVID 19. “We have to join our efforts and do whatever it takes to fight the spread of this virus in our countries and the world at large,” Col Ibuge said. Unlike other SADC conferences that have already been hosted by Tanzania, yesterday’s event attracted few officials, who all took precautions in all their movements in the conference hall. There were no handshake greetings and those who entered the JNICC, had to go through hand sanitisation at the main entry and other doors in the building. The meeting deliberates on a number of issues including the report on the preparation of SADC’s vision 2050 and the Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP) 2020-2030. “Also we shall discuss commemorations of the 40th Anniversary of SADC since its establishment in 1980, implementations of the resolutions reached in the previous meetings, contributions and financial status of SADC as well as receiving audit reports from various activities carried out by the secretariat,” he said. Colonel Ibuge said there was a possibility for them to have another meeting in June this year, depending on the status of spread of COVID-19 at the time. “If the situation will be contained, we may convene June, this year so that we can discuss other agendas that have been skipped and those to be brought on table,” he said. In another development, the East African Community (EAC) has been compelled into suspending all planned meetings for the next 30 days over coronavirus fear. Also affected will be the 21st EAC Summit that was planned for later this month, according to the Arusha based Secretariat’s Media Coordinator, Mr Florian Mutabazi. “The magnitude of the problem is well known to everyone by now…EAC would therefore not be ready to take anything to chance,” offered Mr Mutabazi in a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’. Last week, Rwanda’s Foreign Affairs Minister and Chairman EAC Council of Ministers Vincent Biruta sent EAC Secretary General Liberat Mfumumkeko a letter, calling for the postponement of all EAC meetings that require large crowds. The postponement of such meetings and gatherings comes as one of the six partner states; Kenya is grappling with the Covid- 19 threat. Two days ago, the East African nation blocked entry for non-residents in virus response. It also shut down schools as the number of confirmed cases rose to three, with fears of the country heading to a lockdown ripe. President Uhuru Kenyatta had at the weekend, announced a nationwide partial lockdown and encouraged businesses and government offices to close all non-essential services, a testament to the coronavirus pandemic’s profound impact on daily life. After being relatively spared from the global pandemic that has killed more than 6,000 and infected nearly 160,000, Africa now has 26 countries reporting cases compared with nine a week ago. Three days after the World Health Organisation (WHO) described the outbreak as a pandemic; there is concern among health specialists about the ability of some African nations to meet the logistical and financial challenges posed by the fastspreading virus.