AS commemoration of the World TB Day was marked on Tuesday in different countries, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases (The Union) has drummed support for tuberculosis patients as a preference. The Union and other stakeholders issued the strong call, saying that those who suffer from TB are more vulnerable to coronavirus which is currently ravaging most parts of the world. TB patients face difficult moments due to the outbreak of coronavirus in many parts of the world, and in order to avoid the scourge in the future, it is essential to ensure access to TB prevention, diagnosis and treatment is available. The Union Executive Director, Mr José Luis Castro said in his statement that was made available to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that on their part, The Union was affirming its solidarity and resilience in the fight against the two airborne diseases – TB and Covid-19. He noted that a multi-stakeholder approach to infectious disease control based on a partnership between government, private sector, research sector and affected community is essential if the Covid-19 virus is to be defeated. “The Union recognises that people living with TB are likely to be more vulnerable to Covid- 19 and its effects, and it is essential to ensure that access to TB prevention, diagnosis and treatment continues in what is seen as an unsettling environment. “We know what works to fight Covid-19 from our experience and the tools we have developed to end TB infection control, wide-spread testing, contact tracing, X-rays, artificial intelligence, telemedicine and psycho-social support,” said Mr Castro. He noted that as of now, prevention of any disease requires in the first instance, political will, and prevention remains the biggest tool around to address Covid- 19. He said that years of underinvestment in supporting health systems in TB response made TB and its drug resistant forms the biggest infectious disease killer, with over 4,000 deaths per day. TB is the largest infectious disease killer in the world. Some 1.5 million people die each year of TB. The number of people who develop TB each year — approximately 10 million — has been relatively static for decades, where the disease overwhelmingly affects low and middleincome countries. Ms Claire Forlani, a movie and television actor and Ambassador for The Union said it was important to put vulnerable people first in the fight against Covid- 19, because they learnt from many TB survivors who have gone through isolation, fear, discrimination and stigma that the public is facing with Covid-19. Director of Lung Health at The Union, Professor Kevin Mortimer was quoted as saying that the importance of collaboration in research and development is critical, because what is needed is knowledge, resource sharing and pooling of information to maximise the ability to deliver effective care for everyone in need and develop new innovations, including a vaccine. In Africa, The Union has heritage members in Benin, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Malawi, South Africa, Sudan and Tanzania. It was found in October 20th, 1920 when representatives from 31 countries pledged to work together to fight TB. The disease is an intractable and pervasive problem that at the time had no vaccine, diagnostic tools or cure with which to combat it. The central organisation through which the global TB response would be built was founded on the principles of knowledge sharing and global cooperation.