THE World Bank (WB) has indicated willingness to increase its finance release to Tanzania for the implementation of the country’s Judicial Service Improvement Project after the ongoing first phase scheme expected to wind up in the 2020/2021 financial year successful execution. The Judiciary of Tanzania and the bank held talks late last week on the preparation process to increase the time and money for the implementation of the Judicial Service Improvement Project. Such negotiations, which involved the World Bank delegation and some of the Senior Judicial Officers took place on February 26, 2020 at the Conference Room of the Court Reform Unit in Dar es Salaam, according to the Head of Reforms Unit in Judiciary of Tanzania, Ms Zahra Maruma. She explained that among the discussed issues that will lead to the recovery of the funds, included identifying challenging areas and seeing how they can be worked on and improved to get the best implementation from the beginning to the present. "Among the areas recommended by the World Bank for further improvements by the Judiciary include increased staff training, better management of financial management systems and so on," Ms Maruma, who is also Principal Resident Magistrate, said. On the other hand, the Judiciary of Tanzania has assured the World Bank members that they would implement all the proposed areas for improvements by April this year. The World Bank delegation was in the country from February 19 to February 28 this year, solely to evaluate the implementation of the project as executed by the Judiciary of Tanzania. During the period, the delegation held talks with the Chief Justice of Tanzania, Prof. Ibrahim Juma, Principal Judge Dr Eliezer Feleshi and some of the leaders and executives of the Tanzanian Judiciary. The Word Bank delegation as well made a visit to the new court buildings constructed recently, including the High Court, Kigoma Zone, High Court, Musoma Zone and at Arusha, where construction of the Integrated Justice Center ('IJC) was going on.