TANZANIANS have been urged to build a culture of routinely visiting health facilities for medical eye checkups to avoid conditions, which may develop into optical nerve damage and result into total blindness. Experts at Muhimbili National Hospital Mloganzila said the checkup will help patients, who will be found with glaucoma indications to be treated earlier before the disease damages one’s eye(s). Speaking at the hospital yesterday during a free eye screening as part of commemoration of the World Glaucoma Week, an Ophthalmologist Dr Catherine Makunja said that Glaucoma that forms a group of eye conditions, damages the optic nerve and mainly caused by abnormal pressure in the patient’s eye. She said the disease is threatening because it causes a patient to lose sight, adding that it has no symptoms which can be easily detected. “People with 40 years of age and above are at high risk. They are advised to appear for glaucoma screening at least once a year, because it can lead to blindness if left untreated or when treatment is late,” she said. On the magnitude of the problem, Dr. Makunja said currently, 25 per cent of 100 people visiting the MNH Mloganzila every week for checkup are being diagnosed with some forms of the damages relating to glaucoma. Dr Makunja also said that if a person is found with glaucoma symptoms, he/she will be treated depending to the level and stage of the disease. She said that the population which is most at risk of the disease was those who are likely to inherit it from their parents, who have had such history. The list also included diabetes survivors, severe alcoholic drinkers and addicted smokers of cigarettes among others. On her part, Dr Judith Mwende who is also an Ophthalmologist at the same health facility said that the free screening campaign went in hand with free medication, and educating patients with knowledge on how to act as ambassadors and advise others to appear for screening and treatment. She said that the awareness campaign in eradication of glaucoma, including eye testing is important for agencies like driving licence issuers and eye experts prescribing eye glasses.