THE Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (TCCIA) has appealed to its members across the country to avoid taking advantage of coronavirus by increasing prices of protective gears. The TCCIA’s President, Paul Koyi said during his tour of Southern Highlands that traders need to engage in fair business without taking advantage of the situation. He was talking to government officials and members of the chamber on various issues related to trade and investments in the area. Mr Koyi’s remarks come as a response to recent public complaints accusing the business persons of increasing the prices of the equipment by 30-50 percent since coronavirus cases were reported in the country. “On behalf of TCCIA board, I would like to join fellow Tanzanians in the fight against this disease. THe disease is a threat to life and the country’s economy, “said Mr Koyi. He also called upon all business persons to sell quality corona virus protective gears and all other required equipment. Reports of coronavirus outbreak in Tanzania was recently announced and confirmed by the Health Minister Ummy Mwalimu during a press conference in Dar es Salaam. The Minister said a Tanzania citizen was diagnosed with the virus. The patient returned to Tanzania from Belgium via Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) in Kilimanjaro Region. Moreover, the latest reports availed by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa suggest that the number of coronavirus cases in the country has increased. Following these reports, the government has taken various preventive measures to prevent the spread of the viral infection. Among others, the government has banned gatherings, closed primary and secondary schools as well as Higher learning institutions across the country. “As a business and economy-oriented institution, TCCIA would like to urge all the members across the country to take precautions against the virus by adhering to the health guidelines and recommendations issued by the government, “ said Mr Koyi.