ILALA Municipal authority is from this week set to start an operation, where all beggars in Dar es Salaam City centre will be kicked out without violating human rights. The revelation was made by the Municipal Director, Mr Jumanne Shauri, at a capacity building seminar organize in the city to local government leaders, who were elected in November last year, adding that this time round, the operation will be successful because already his authority has enacted bylaws for proper execution of the plan. He further said that the newly enacted bylaw would penalize anyone found begging in the streets to pay an instant 200,000/-fine. “Once one repeats the offence, one will be taken to court and face a 300,000/-penalty or become imprisoned for not more than 12 months. “For children, we have introduced their center at Msongola area in the Municipality. However, our Social Welfare Officers will have to establish the actual needs of the center… and the rest will be reuniting them (children) with their families. “For adults, once arrested one will be photographed and taken direct to a court of law and then transferred back to one’s home village after paying 200,000/- penalty fine,” said Mr Shauri. The Director pointed out that they reached the decision after observing a trend, where some people hire rooms in Kigamboni Municipality to lodge fellow citizens to collect money in the streets as beggars, and whatever collected shared in agreements. However, he noted that his authority was hot on the heels of the beggars’ sponsors, and once apprehended, will face the same punishments as their hired beggars. Expounding, Mr Shauri said that vagabonds loitering with nowhere to sleep, including those who spend nights on pavements and buildings’ corridors in the city will also face the same music. The Municipal has come to notice that such people during the day beg for money and other items, but in the evening hours pay their masters agreed fees, including 500/-to sleep in their buildings’ corridors and pavements. “Owners of such buildings will also experience the same punishments including caretakers they assign to look after their houses. The operation is a non-stop exercise and we look forward to hiring city auxiliary police in the near future for day and night operations. We are confident that we will win this battle, because Court Magistrates have the bylaws to lead and guide them to jail the culprits in.