THE government has launched an instant public school connectivity project that would connect at least 163 schools with information and communication technology facilities in an attempt to improve digital literacy among the youth. The plan launched by the Deputy Minister for Works and Communication, Elias Kwandikwa on behalf of his immediate head, would connect all public schools with Information and Communication Technology (ICT) facilities being implemented by the Universal Communication Service Access Fund (UCSAF) with support from Vodacom Tanzania. Elaborating, he said that with the government eyeing industrial economy in the country, equipping schoolchildren with ICT skills would be the cornerstone of empowering the future labour force with needed skills. He noted that so far over 1,000 teachers have been trained to facilitate the studies in the regions of Rukwa, Ruvuma, Dodoma, Morogoro, Mwanza, Katavi, Iringa, Kigoma, Kagera, Geita, Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Manyara, Shinyanga, Singida, Kilimanjaro, Lindi, Mbeya and Zanzibar. Shedding light on the project, UCSAF Chief Executive Office (CEO), Ms Justina Mashiba said the pilot scheme would involve linking some 24 public schools in Tabora and Simiyu regions, where each institution will receive five computers, router and software to enhance teaching and learning. “We resolved to improve connectivity in the countryside. This year our target is to reach 556 Wards, 3130 villages and benefits at least 8 million people... but we seek mostly to link with public schools,” she said. Since 2014, only 558 public schools had received ICT support to improve information and computer studies learning in their institutions. According to the UCSAF, already they had released more than 2,300 computers for the project. Hisham Hendi, Vodacom Tanzania Managing Director said the company through its foundation is extending a year-long support of over 400m/-to support the digital literacy scheme in public schools. “A digital technology enables learners and teachers to access right knowledge. Vodacom will use its technology and broadband network to reach more people,” he said, while emphasizing on their support towards the goal.