THERE is one thing I don’t like about Tanzanian football, if such a thing does exist, and that is, our football players don’t tire in disappointing their fans! In fact, if there is anything that Tanzanian footballers are good at, is raising the hopes and expectations of their fans, and when they are just in the proverbial ninth cloud, they disappoint them and big time. This is exactly what happened three days after Young Africans edged out, by one goal to nil, their traditional rivals, Simba Sports Club at the sprawling National Stadium in the city last Sunday. Just when Yanga fans were still celebrating their well, deserved victory registered through a well, organised and technically and tactically played match that saw one of the most classic goals scored, Yanga, were edged out by KMC who are 16th in the premier league. And nothing shocked me than a statement issued by one of the club’s leaders after the end of Yanga, KMC match, that they had given their players two days off after beating Simba. If you go by what the club official said, what it means is that Yanga took on the youthful KMC without any preparation under the sun! When you come to think of it, they did not need such preparations, after all they had beaten their traditional rivals, and that was the most important thing for them; And not doing better in the league now that they have beaten reigning league champions. Now if you think that, that official is not only naïve but has also big problems, then you’re wrong. That is because that is the thinking of most club leaders in this country and that is why this country is where it is today, the Cinderella of African football. You should therefore not be surprised over the existence of Tanzanian football players who are very much sought after by clubs like TP Mazembe, but instead of joining such high profile clubs which have won back to back Africa’s champions league, they hide and later join locally based clubs! A few months ago, I wrote, in these columns that there are no clubs which have helped in bringing down football in this country than the two, so-called giants, Simba and Young Africans. First of all, both have for years dominated the country’s football governing body from FAT to TFF; and as a result, it has become extremely difficult in raising the standard of the game in the country. That story is long and requires separate treatment. When the rest of the world, including north African countries, are pumping money into football, Tanzanians still believe that they can develop the game through contributions from club members, fans and well-wishers. During SOCCER AFRICA programme, which is aired by DStv, on Thursday night this week, viewers were told that a top flight Moroccan football club, Raja Casablanca, spends ten million US dollars per annum in development. Now how do you expect Simba and Yanga to beat Moroccan football clubs, and Raja Casablanca in particular, in any tournament under the sun when the money we invest in our clubs are neither here nor there? Last season, during the continental football clubs tournament, South Africa’s Mamelodi Sundowns, better known as the Brazilians, walloped Egypt’s giants, Al Ahly five nil in the return leg in South Africa. We all thought then that the Egyptians were done. But they have not only recovered, but they went on to take out Mamelodi Sundown from the on-going tournament. Now going forward, Yanga need to tell their players that the salad days they had since beating Simba on Sunday are now over. And that they now need to work hard and win all their remaining matches in the league. The sooner they tell their players that, the better. Otherwise they could easily drop to the fourth place in the league, their sweet victory against Simba notwithstanding. It is important for the Yanga leadership to bear in mind that beating a reigning champion is very good. But what that victory brings to the victor, going forward, is more important. Former UEFA Champions League kingpins, Liverpool, who were dethroned on Wednesday by Spanish side Atletico Madrid, did not lose a match in five months. Their Wednesday’s defeat against one of the Spanish giants was the fifth in as many months. But even after being dethroned, they were still defiant. Their German coach, Jürgen Klopp said they would use this time to rebuild their team, warning that the world is yet to see Liverpool. And that is the kind of spirit our soccer clubs need to emulate and not giving players days off when the battle is still on. When the TFF announced the date for the first encounter between Simba and Yanga a few months ago, the official said they were treating the derby just like any other league match. I liked what the TFF official had said and that is what our club leaders need to think about; that derbies are normal matches, meaning that our clubs should prepare for such matches just like any other matches. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo. co.uk