THE government has insisted that so far there is neither suspected nor confirmed coronavirus case in the country allaying public fears that six foreigners are locally nursing the disease. The government statement followed circulating grapevine in some social network that six foreigners from Denmark and Norway who arrived in the country on March 13 this year at Kilimanjaro Airport (KIA) have contracted the disease. The rumours came just a day after media reports showed that neighbouring Kenya confirmed its first coronavirus case on Friday. Clearing the confusion, the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ms Ummy Mwalimu said yesterday in a statement availed to the media that members of the public should remain calm, because so far there was no case of the disease reported in the country. She said that the alleged six foreigners who arrived at the KIA from the neigbouring Kenya have not contracted the disease, and one of them who had a temperature of rising to 38 degree centigrade, only had normal flu and were all allowed to proceed with their businesses after undergoing lab tests. Ms Ummy explained that health personnel at the KIA collected samples from the six passengers, which were sent to Dar es Salaam National Health Laboratory for tests, adding: “Diagnosis results at the national lab confirmed that the six did not contract the viral disease and one passenger had high temperature and normal flu.” Equally, she pointed out that the government was taking all possible measures at the country’s borders including thorough screening of passengers in airports, and ports to ensure that the disease is kept at bay. On Friday, President John Magufuli issued an alert over the deadly global virus, calling upon individuals, media, and security bodies to play their role in taking preventive measures. Expounding, the President also said he had already directed the Chief Secretary, Amb John Kijazi to restrict permission of government officials requesting to travel abroad, as the world struggles to fight the pandemic. He further appealed to the citizens to limit their travels from one region to another, saying that the disease has no immediate cure. “There are people who always travel from one region to another, please limit such journeys if not necessary,” Dr Magufuli said, while addressing the nation in a live-televised event from Lugalo Military Base when inaugurating a major mechanical workshop for Tanzania People’s Defence Force. “You should know that we (Tanzanians) have not reported any case, but we can’t stay relaxed, and that is why we have started taking preventive measures,” President Magufuli stated, while calling upon all citizens not to ignore routine caution issued by the government.