LACK of collateral and access to ownership of land are among contributing factors that hinder women access to loans from many financial institutions. According to United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) report, the most women who are economically active in the least-developed countries work in agriculture. The report further shows that rural women are major agricultural producers especially at the household level, unfortunately they have least access to agricultural extension services. However, having the Agro bank in Tanzania has aided in reducing this gap by empowering women across value chain. This paper, met with three women beneficiary of the loans from the agri-bank—Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB), which has helped them to significantly change their lives. Ms Hosiana Kusiga, Ms Hellen Mhumba, and Lucy Yona famously known as Mama Seki have a lot to tell after they accessed the loan from TADB, which has helped them to improve horticulture farms. While Ms Kusiga is investing in a greenhouse, Ms Mhumba is in a group of smallholder farmers in Iringa, who are focusing on traditional farming method. Ms Yona owns a factory that adds value to agricultural produce, packs, and supplies agricultural produce to consumers. This effort also had aided in post-harvest loss management. The Tanzania agricultural Development Bank (TADB) has outlined its initiative towards supporting women in the agriculture value chain. The support, according to the bank is aimed at improving the packaging for produced agricultural goods, while focusing at provision of support in different stages of agricultural value chain. The bank is willing to support women working in such fields in order to support them to enable improve packaging, plant quality seeds for them to have good harvest. “Most of women fail to excel in business because they lack capital, quality seed and skills to add value to their products,” Ms. Mhumba says, adding that through acquiring women loan project they intend to increase production. “Last year, I remember borrowing to cultivate my farm. After that I planted using quality seeds and had a bumper harvest…the turnover was 1.4 m/- which is two times of what I used to gain before,” says Ms Mhumba. She stresses that accessing a loan from TADB has made life easy because she managed to pay school fees for her child and she intends to continue borrowing in future to fund other projects. Through TADB loan facility to farmers, Ms Kusiga borrowed funds to boost production capacity of vegetables and increase sales from 1m/- to 4m/- per month. She is grateful to TADB for coming up with women’s loan initiative, which she believes will liberate many women who are employed in the agricultural sector that employs the majority of Tanzanians. According to her, as they commemorate the international women’s day themed “the generous of equity for Tanzania’s present and future development” every woman in their respective areas and regions must think of access to finance for brighter future and the development of the country. “Though I have just accessed the funds recently but, I see a bright future ahead because I am now using modern facilities and seeds to improve production,” she said. To maximize her yields, Ms Kusiga has employed experts to deal with greenhouse infrastructure and installation of irrigation system for cultivating greenhouse horticulture. “It is important to get it right from the start and given the fact that it is money that has to be repaid,” she says. According to her, agriculture and horticulture in particular, dominate the rural economy making an important contribution to local employment and food security. In most of Tanzania’s settings, bulk of vegetables is mostly produced by small-scale growers, who use traditional methods with surpluses being sold through middleman at the local and regional markets. Ms Kusiga calls upon women to try to access loans offered by banks such as TADB to maximise their potentials and productivity. “Women are a cog in the agricultural sector and they can maximize their potential with additional funding which is now available at some of the banks in the country,” she says. “For any business to grow and farmers to have bumper harvest women require capital without which, we cannot achieve the mission and vision of the country of becoming a poverty free nation.” On the other hand, Mama Seki Industries Limited’s Executive Director Ms Lucy Yona says, women entrepreneurs and farmers play a vital role in economic development of Tanzania unfortunately; they lack enough capital because they cannot access loans. “Through the TADB loan I have managed to buy tonnes of maize and rice from farmers across the region,” she said. According to her, women account for 60 per cent of the agricultural workforce in Tanzania, unfortunately, they are overlooked by most financial institutions. She stressed that for the country to attain its vision, the private sector should collaborate with government institutions to guarantee loans so as to improve their farming and increase productivity. “This will help farmers in various regions to increase their output by facilitating access to quality farm inputs, training and mentoring services,” she said. Ms Yona who accessed a loan from Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) says the performance of her business has improved tremendously since then. “Though it’s not good to mention how much money I borrowed from the bank for business and security. But the loan has helped to meet the market demand and I have managed to improve the operation systems,” she said. She has far reached more than 100 small farmers growers. TADB enable women, contribute to the country’s economy and the bank is committed to empowering women and increasing their awareness and access to finance, which can help them become more productive in the agricultural sector. The bank started its operations in 2016; it has four Zonal offices, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Mwanza, Mbeya and has disbursed loans to over 141 agricultural projects. The banks operation has benefited directly and indirectly, over 1.6 million farmers in 18 regions in Tanzania, 32 per cent among them are women. As of December 31, 2019, the bank has disbursed total of 150bn/-. TADB is a key stakeholder in the development and envisaged revolution of the agricultural sector; it is committed to delivering on undertakings made in the context of the national agriculture related strategies aligned with implementation of ASDP II through its operations in transforming the agricultural sector.