TANZANIA Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (TCCIA) has been asked by the government to join the fight against Coronavirus by facilitating the supply of protective equipment to the public. Recently the chamber’s President, Paul Koyi asked traders to avoid taking advantage of the problem by hiking prices of the highly required equipment including hand sanitizers, masks and others. Yesterday, the Acting Regional Administrative Secretary for Ruvuma region, Mr Lucas Mwalusaka asked for TCCIA support in the fight against the deadly virus. He said the region needs enough supply of equipment and that TCCIA could play part in ensuring availability of the said products. “We are asking TCCIA to play part along with the government in fighting the virus,” he said. He said the region receives traders from Mozambique and Malawi and that with such interaction, there are all reasons for pre-cautions and need to take all measures as required. He said that so far the region administration has taken effective precautions measures against the virus by allocating hand sanitizers in various public and private places in the region. On his side, the TCCIA President, Mr Koyi instructed TCCIA officials based in Ruvuma to closely work with the local government authorities in the region to ensure the equipment are distributed in the respective areas. “As a private sector, we need to join hands with the government in curbing corona virus,” said Mr Koyi. Coronavirus outbreak occurred in China and later spread to the rest of the World including Africa and Europe claiming deaths of thousands of people. Following the outbreak, the government of Tanzania has already put in place effective preventive measures such as closing academic institutions and banning public gatherings across the country. In efforts to curb the virus transmission globally, the World Health Organization (WHO) has called up the countries to enhance preventive measures after declaring the virus as a global health pandemic after the outbreak spread outside China.