TANZANIANS have advised to dispel a misconception that writing a will is a bad omen as the practice serves as protection of the family and saves it from unnecessary conflicts. Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA) Senior State Attorney Janeth Mandawa said a will was a person (testator)’s declaration showing where he would be buried and how his properties would be distributed to the intended recipients-his wife, children and other dependants after his death. “People should change their mind-set and give priority to the woman in managing properties after the death of her husband to avoid unnecessary conflicts in families and communities as well as bring equality and justice,” she said. According to Ms Janeth, writing a will seeks to protect the intended recipients against property grabbing. It includes the appointment of an administrator/ administratrix of the properties. She added that it helped to avoid conflicts in families, relatives or children. “It also gives you the assurance of the future lives of your heirs based on the assets you own and reduces the cost or inconvenience while running properties.” “RITA has decided to remind members of the public of the importance of writing and preserving a will after seeing many challenges in managing of properties after the death of the husband who did not write a will. The move helps to avoid unnecessary conflicts and maintains good relationship among family members,” she noted. Ms Mandawa mentioned two types of wills: A written will and a verbal/oral will and the process of writing a will varies according to the law of inheritance. She explained that a woman was a strong pillar of the family so when the pillar was out of control the family would fall easily or would be affected greatly. On International Women’s Day, to be celebrated on Sunday at Bariadi Town Council ground in Simiyu Region, RITA will offer various services, including showing how to write and maintain a will, public education on inheritance management, registration of trustee relationships, child rearing and registration of death, marriage and divorce. She noted that Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan would grace the event.