THIS year we have witnessed different effects of heavy rain in different parts of our country. Meanwhile history tells us that in 1994 heavy torrential rains killed several people in different parts of our country. In 1998 heavy showers pounded Dar es salaam sweeping into the sea different valuable properties including buildings from Mabibo, Mwananyamala, Mbagala and other parts of the fastest growing city in East Africa. At that time, due to intensity of the havoc which was brought by the heavy rains, different religious leaders asked believers to pray for God’s helping hand to stop the rains which scientists said was caused by what they called El Niño. Scientists say this situation is associated with the rise of temperature on the Pacific Ocean. It is the largest sea with 165.25 million square kilometers which covers about 46 percent of the Earth’s water surface 361.13 million square kilometers and about one third of this planet total surface area which covers 510 million square kilometers. The above mentioned feature gives Pacific Ocean power over other masses around the world including continents where people, wild animals, birds and insects live, any ecological and chemical changes in and around this gigantic water body will obviously affect the rest of the world in one way or another. Scientists associate El Niño with a band of warm ocean water that develops in the central and east central equatorial part of Pacific Ocean, it is accompanied by high air pressure in the western Pacific and low air pressure in the eastern Pacific. Different scientific researches indicate that this anomaly happens at irregular intervals of two to seven years, and lasts for nine months to two years but the average period length is five years. Scientists say the volume of the Pacific, representing about 50.1 percent of the world’s oceanic water, has been estimated that about 714 million cubic kilometers of the worlds precious liquid resting between the rims of this ocean. Pacific Ocean has the lowest point on Earth called Mariana Trench which lies about 10,911 meters from its huge surface, all these features enable anything which starts from Pacific Ocean to impact other neighboring water bodies including Indian Ocean which experience the rise of its surface pressure. Position, size and pressure from Pacific make the Indian Ocean to reach the highest temperature level among oceans of the world which also affect weather patens on the regions around this water body which Tanzania and other East African countries lies on its western zone. Scientists say this happens due to warm trade winds from the Pacific Ocean which change frequency and magnitude of El Niño on the Indian Ocean and this can be seen evidently on what happen in different parts of East Africa at the beginning of every four years such as on 1994, 1998, 2014 and 2018. This year Tanzania and others in East African country have experienced one of the wettest season in recent years, reports of deaths, damaged building, roads and other infrastructures have been recorded from different parts of the region. Most scientists believe things started about 10 billion years ago during the big bang which lead the planet Earth to come into existence about 4.5 billion years ago, then about 3.5 billion years ago a cloud with rain from Mars brought the first showers on this only habitable planet in the universe. Scientists define rain as liquid water in form of droplets which have condensed from atmospheric water vapor and become heavy enough to be forced to fall down due to impact of gravitational force. The Serengeti annual migration follows weather pattern on the region and scientists say rain is a major component of water cycle which moves from one part to another around the world while changing form such as vapor, ice and liquid which provide suitable conditions into many types of ecosystems. Crocodile and hippos thrive around water bodies and scientists say from streams through big rivers such as Ruvu, Wami, Pangani, Ruvuma, Malagarasi and Rufiji water flow into the Indian Ocean which forms part of the World Ocean measuring for about 361.9 million square kilometers and occupies about 70.9 percent of Earth’s surface. The World Ocean is the major reservoir of water on the planet because at one time it is estimated that its volume is approximately 1.335 billion cubic kilometers which rest on its average depth for about 3,688 meters down to its maximum depth of 10,994 meters at the Mariana Trench. Scientists estimate a single drop of water stay inside the World Ocean for about 3,200 before it evaporates into the sky as a part of what is known as hydrological cycle but on Antarctica and Arctic regions due to very low temperature this process is very long for about 20,000 years while on inland water bodies such as lake Victoria its much shorter for about 50 to 100 years. With wider surface, big water bodies such as lake and oceans are exposed to powerful sun-rays which hit them direct from the sky to rise temperature on the surface layer to boiling point and turn a certain amount of water into vapor which escape into the hydrosphere where it will stay for some time. Evaporation take place on the surface water after sun-rays rise temperature on tiny particles of water called molecules which lose weight and spread on the surface before escaping into the sky where they accumulate to form a cloud. There are several factors which are involved in this process, concentration of molecules on one drop play a crucial role while amount of oxygen is very important because gas exchange inside one molecule may affect the rate of evaporation and these situation slowdown gravitational forces actions upon these water particles. Temperature level on the surface of water bodies such as dams, lake and sea contributes on the rate of evaporation but it plays an important role in the purification and evaporation of water into the sky for storage until time and condition allow the coming back to the Earth as rain shower. On the ground a good amount saturate into the underground storage called Aquifer which store about 20 percent of all amount of water around the world, from runoff, streams, rivers through infiltration the Water table receive its supply which stores it for 10,000 years but some condition may force a discharge after 100 to 200 years. From the ground through the long and complex process of hydrology cycle, different vegetations filter and take about 1 percent of underground water but during dry season 90 percent of all stored liquid is released into the air through another process called Transpiration which works on leaf of a tree or other plant. Different factors contribute on the transpiration process but the number of stomata, size of a leaf and rate of temperature in a particular area also plays a key role one the amount of water from one plant which goes into sky as part of hydrological circle. Scientists estimate that one acre full of tree is capable delivering into the sky up to 11,400 liters of vapor from its storage a day although the same area is estimated to release between 40,000 and 151,000 liters of vapor in a year due to different factors including weather. Scientists say evaporation takes place when one molecule of water vapor loss weight and due to gravitational forces and pulled into the sky, this happens when contents and the structure water molecules allow this process even before reaching boiling point. This and other factors makes one molecule to be lighter than air forcing it to escape into the air where it joins others to form a cloud and through what is known as condensation they form droplets which join together to form a cloud which hangs on a Troposphere. The troposphere forms 99 percent of the atmosphere and through what is called Precipitation the sky make the droplets to heavier and fall into the ground as rain, measuring about 3 millimeters on droplet will fall down at a minimum speed of 8 seconds per one meter but before reaching the ground it will be divided into smaller ones measuring about 0.5 millimeter. It is believed that about 4.5 thousand years ago when Noah built the ark there was no rain on the Earth, people depended on ground water which was left behind from about bout 3.5 billion years ago when the landmass was separated from the ancient ocean. Religious history tells us that due sins, God punished the ancient world through a powerful deluge which swallowed all animals, birds, reptilians, insects and humans except Noah’s family and its households which was served by an ark. To conserve life on the Earth, God instructed Noah to take on board the ark his wife, his three sons, and his sons’ wives, two of every living thing, and seven pairs of every clean creature and of every bird, together with sufficient food. The story shows that then the world came under heavier rain showers for 40 days which enabled the ark stay afloat for 150 day then water started to subside and allowed the vessel to rest on a mountain. To check condition outside the vessel, Noah released a crow which came back then flew away to enjoy its meal from carrions which scattered on all parts of the Earth, then a dove was sent and after going around it came back into the ark with an olive leaf in its bill to show that the world was ready for the second inhabitation. rstanslaus@yahoo.com