THE government is planning a national wide forum that will involve faculties of law at various universities in the country to chart out the best practice to groom law interns to be the best professionals. Likewise land dispute cases will soon be handled by the judiciary instead of the village land councils for effective and timely resolution, according to Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs Minister, Dr Augustine Mahiga. Opening the Attorney General (AG), Workers’ Council at the weekend, he said the decision to give the judiciary power to resolve land disputes was in final stages. He was optimistic that the decision, apart from challenges facing the judiciary, would be an ideal avenue since the judiciary was an independent entity. Speaking on the forum, Dr Mahiga said it was meant to address the missing gap and come up with the best practice for the noble profession. “We are planning to come up with a national forum that will include all faculties of law in higher learning institutions to see the best way to groom the upcoming lawyers who will adhere to professional ethics,” said Dr Mahiga. Moreover, the minister said during the forum they would discuss the missing gap with graduates as those enrolling in the Law School, only less than 10 per cent of them pass their examinations. “Hundreds enroll in the Law School, but only less than 10 per cent pass their examinations. There is a problem somewhere, so we need such a forum,” said Dr Mahiga. The minister said the workers’ council was part of democracy thus those elected to represent their colleagues must exercise diligence for their fellow employees’ interest. He insisted on the need to engage workers in all decision-making processes that might have an impact on institutional performance or where there were challenging matters that needed consensus. Dr Mahiga reminded them to work around the clock and get rid of poorly drafted contracts which were too costly to the government and stakeholders. In his welcoming remarks, Attorney General, Prof Adelardus Kilangi, insisted on the need for the workers to be guided by labour laws and the code of ethics and conduct for public servants in discharging their duties. Prof Kilangi said they had set out moral goals where their operations would be addressed on building competence, increasing efficiency and integrity. “We want to enhance the integration of workers to create positive change and outlook of the AG’s Office,” he said. The AG said for more employees’ capacity building, in November and December last year they were taken through public confidentiality information and documents training by the government’s security office as well as combating and prevention of corruption. He said the office needed 400 state attorneys while currently there were only 150 and appealed for training of more whenever government coffers allowed. As it is the case with the judiciary where they have induction courses for new magistrates and judges, the AG is finalising a setup of such an institution for state attorneys where they will be moulded as per the state attorneys’ code of conduct. “We will soon launch the state attorney institute. We will come to you when the regulations are ready for endorsement,” he insisted. As for public awareness, Prof Kilangi said they had registered a journal which would simplify and put legal matters in a language that