FOR the past nine months, Mzee Sufiani Rajabu, a resident of Kibaya Kati area in Kiteto District, Manyara Region, has been struggling in vain to get medical treatment for prostate ailment. By the time a team of medical specialists from the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital arrived in the area, he was planning to travel to Dar es Salaam to seek medical treatment at the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH). “I was dead-tired with swallowing a lot of tablets including pain killers for the prostate ailment. They had become like seeds in my stomach,” said the 83-yearold man while in his hospital bed after undergoing prostate surgery. Mzee Rajabu is one of about 200 residents of Kiteto who had benefited from a three-day mobile medical outreach organised by the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital at Kiteto District Hospital. He had undergone Trans- Urethra Resection of Prostrate (TURP) performed by the medical specialists from BMH during the three day mobile medical outreach programme in Kiteto District. TURP is a surgical procedure that involves cutting away a section of the prostate, a small gland in the pelvis only found in men. It is located between the penis and bladder and surrounds the urethra (the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the penis). Medical Officer in Charge of Kiteto District Hospital, Dr Geko Jackson, pointed out that the TURP was the first such procedure to be performed at the Kiteto District Hospital since its establishment. The District Hospital was the host for medical specialists from BMH who were carrying out the mobile medical outreach programme. Dr Jackson says the Kiteto District Hospital had tremendously benefited from the advent of BMH medical specialists, saying the programme has helped residents of kiteto to access specialised medical treatments. He urges the BMH’s management to continue partnership with the Kiteto District Hospital and that the Hospital should consider to bring more medical specialists in other medical areas largely gynecology. Kiteto District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Paschal Mbota, says the prostate surgery was the first to be performed at Kiteto District Hospital since its establishment. The District Hospital medical doctors and nurses had a great opportunity to learn from endoscopic surgery performed by medical specialists from BMH. Dr Mbota expressed gratitude to the BMH’s manage- ment for setting up a mobile medical outreach programme, noting that the programme has helped to bring the specialised medical services closer to Kiteto people. “The advent of medical specialists from Benjamin Mkapa Hospital has helped our people who were missing out the specialised medical services here to get access to the services,” says the DMO. He said the programme has helped the district hospital to increase the level of revenues within the three days of the services, urging the BMH to build a permanent partnership with the Kiteto District Hospital. However, the three days period of mobile medical service was not sufficient due to big number of people who were seeking the specialised medical services, he said. Dr Mbota said the BMH’s management should consider in extending the three days period of mobile medical outreach to at least seven days to accommodate a big number of people who are seeking specialised medical services. He urged the BMH’s management to add gynecology, paediatric and orthopaedic in the next mobile medical outreach to Kiteto. According to the Hospital’s Executive Director, Dr Alphonce Chandika, the Hospital’s mobile medical outreach programme is in line with the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) election manifesto. “Hospital’s mobile medical outreach programme is aimed to enable rural communities get access to medical services,” said the Hospital’s Executive Director. The CCM election manifesto directs the government to build the nation with people with ideal health to enable them engage in income generating activities in order to improve their livelihoods. In a press statement released here recently by the Hospital’s Communication and Public Relations Unit, the Hospital’s mobile medical outreach comprised of four medical specialists in cardiology, nephrology, urology and general surgery. “We have conducted screening to the people with complications in urinary tract system, kidney and heart during the three days exercise,” read part of the statement quoting the BMH’s mobile medical outreach team leader, Dr Kessy Shija. Ms Hawa Rajabu, one of the beneficiary residents, appealed to the BMH’s management to frequently conduct mobile medical outreach to Kiteto to enable them get specialised medical services. With the goal to provide the people with specialised health services, BMH opened its doors in 2015. The Hospital is equipped with state-of-theart laboratories and facilities including cath lab, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) imaging (Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Computerized Tomography Scan (CT Scan). Others are Mammography, X-ray, Ultrasound, Gamma Camera, Angiography, Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT), Single Photon Emission Computerised Tomography (SPECT/CT) and radiotherapy services. BMH serves between 350 and 400 patients a day and has 400 beds. It delivers acclaimed services namely Cardiac care, Critical care, Neurosurgery, Orthopaedic surgery, Anesthesiology, Oncology, Urology, Hematology, Radiology, Ophthalmology, Nephrology, Obstetrics and Gynecology. Recently, the Hospital set up Trauma Unit, a facility equipped and staffed to provide care for patients suffering from major traumatic injuries such as falls, motor vehicle collisions or gunshot wounds. So far, at least eleven people have undergone kidney transplant in the Hospital’s Nephrology Unit and some 35 people are currently attending Kidney Care Clinic for dialysis service. BMH is the second health facility in the country after Muhimbili National Hospital to perform kidney transplant.