THE Attorney General (AG) has lost the bid for the government, through the Tanzania Building Agency (TBA), to continue owning land provided as gift to Republic of Cyprus before being rented to the International School of Tanga in Tanga City. This followed the decision of the Court of Appeal to dismiss with costs of appeal by the AG, the appellant, against findings of the High Court, which had ruled in favour of four respondents, Mwahezi Mohamed, Despina Ntepi Spvratos, Melina Maria Eustace and Enock Majere Simwanza. “We are satisfied that the trial Judge properly analyzed the evidence availed before him and reached to an appropriate conclusion, hence, there is no justification to interfere with his decision,” Justices Richard Mziray, Jacobs Mwambegele and Rehema Kerefu declared. During hearing of the appeal, the appellant had contended, among others that the trial Judge erred in law and fact for failure to evaluate the evidence, and hold that the appellant failed to prove the fact that they had acquired the suit property in dispute under adverse possession. In their judgment, however, the justices pointed out that though the appellant claimed to have acquired possession over the land since 1970s through a grant given to the Cyprus government and transferred later to Tanzania government, he had failed completely to adduce material evidence to prove those facts. “There was no deed of gift or transfer deed availed before the trial court to that effect. The appellant's witnesses ended up producing communication letters, which at any rate cannot manage to prove ownership over a registered land,” they said. In addition, the justices noted that though the appellant also claimed to have acquired the suit property by an adverse possession, but again failed to prove if he complied with the procedures laid down under section 37 of the Limitation Act. The trial Judge had adequately considered the applicability of the doctrine of adverse possession on a registered land and observed that application of the doctrine of adverse possession in a registered land is not automatic. According to the trial judge, one has first to apply to the High Court for an order that he be registered under the relevant law as holder of the right of occupancy in place of the person then registered as such holder. The same must be against the person then registered as holder and the Commissioner for Lands. “In our considered opinion, the trial Judge correctly applied the doctrine of adverse possession, because unlike in an unregistered land, the adverse possession over the registered land is not automatic,” the justices of the appeals court said. They also observed that the appellant’s claim on adverse possession by asserting that he had been in occupation of the land over 40 years was incorrect, as possession and occupation of land for a considerable period do not, in themselves, automatically give rise to claim of adverse. “We even find the appellant's case to be a misconception of both facts and law, as in law one cannot claim to have acquired ownership over the land simultaneously through a transfer and adverse possession. “It has to be understood that the principle of an adverse possession cannot be used as a weapon but a shield when one is sued for illegal possession of the land. The appellant is not entitled to use adverse possession as a weapon to sue the respondent,” the justices concluded. Facts show that the original registered owner of the suit property was Anverala Hassanali Esmailjee Jivanjee, who acquired and occupied it from 1953 to 1963, when it was transferred to Dolly Maria Eustace, who was the wife of the Commissioner of Cyprus. It is on record that the said Dolly Maria Eustace died on January 7, 2008 and probate was granted to Mwahezi Mohamed to administer her estate. Prior to her death, in 1971 the late Dolly Maria Eustace donated her right of occupancy over the suit property as a gift to the Republic of Cyprus.