INAUGURATION of a major military mechanical workshop yesterday, coupled with ongoing efforts to strengthen the Tanzania Automotive Technology Centre (TATC) was a positive gesture for the Tanzania People’s Defense Force (TPDF) to venture into car making. President John Magufuli stated this when he launched the mechanical workshop worth 8.5bn/-at Lugalo Military Base in Dar es Salaam. The president expressed hope that the modern facility comes as a back-up to the TATC, commonly known as ‘Nyumbu’. “I am pleased to see this workshop. Every time I meet army leaders, I have been insisting to them to participate in development activities, including setting up industries, and construction of this workshop shows that the army understood and responded to my concern,” Dr Magufuli stated. He said the government was currently building capacity to Nyumbu institute, and the launching of the workshop indicates that in a short period of time they will make sure TPDF acquires high technical skills. He went far, expressing his wish: “I desire to see our defense force making its own military weapons and other items, but most importantly to see Tanzanians buying products such as cars manufactured by our army.” The Head of State was upbeat that the matter was possible since armies in some African countries are able to do that. “Why shouldn’t it be possible for the Tanzanian army which is strong and has helped liberating some African countries and participate in peacekeeping mission,” he said. The workshop at Lugalo was constructed with the support from the German Armed Forces Technical Advisory Group (GAFTAG). Defense and National Service Minister, Dr Hussein Mwinyi explained that the workshop will be used for repairing military vehicles and other machineries. The workshop will also be used as a training centre for building capacity among military officials as well as contributing to improving capacity in security matters. Dr Mwinyi noted that Germany has been very supportive to the TPDF in terms of medical and logistical matters. Chief of Defense Forces (CDF), General Venance Mabeyo pointed out that Germany donated mobile medical care units worth 6.3bn/-which are now used in peace keeping operations, and it has allocated 13bn/-for implementing its plan to build a major military referral hospital in the capital city Dodoma. The referral hospital in Dodoma is now at survey stage. “I thank Germany for enabling these projects which will make the army perform its duties efficiently,” he said, adding “I also thank the fifth phase government for continuing to cement good relations with Germany, which has resulted into this support to the army,” he said. Germany supported construction of the workshop as part of its efforts to extend medical and logistical support to African armies for effective participation in peacekeeping.