FEBRUARY 12, 2020, will go down in history as one of the saddest and darkest moments in the history of Madaba Municipal, in Songea District, Ruvuma Region. Five school children perished in a horror crash in the township when a recklessly speeding driver lost control of a car he was driving and crashed a group of pupils. The unfortunate kids, aged between 10 and 13, were on their way home from school on Tuesday afternoon when their lives and dreams were cruelly cut short by an irresponsible driver, who ran away after the incident. Glory Kilasi (12), Ushindi Juma (12), Evaristo Miligo (10) Isaya Mkani (13) and Victor Luoga (10) died on the spot while one, Hilda Kilasa escaped by a whisker. Their funeral service was held on February 13, when a sizable mourning crowd, led by Regional Commissioner, turned up to pay their last respect to the fallen youngsters. In front of the closed caskets, tenth of devastated family members and friends mourners wept uncontrollably as they said goodbye to their loved ones, whose promising lives were blown out like a candle in the wind. “This is a massive tragedy. These kids were the treasure of the nation. They have gone at a very tender age," mourned Ruvuma Regional Commissioner Christina Mndeme. "These young kids were just walking innocently, full of energy and life, but in a blip all that was taken away recklessly," remarked local government chairperson, Stanley Ngairo. Joseph Mhagama, a Member of Parliament for Madaba constituency made an equally emotional speech as he paid his last respect to the fallen kids. Visibly wounded and emotional, the MP expressed great concerns on the spate of road crashes involving students and pleaded for urgent measures to address the problem. The lawmaker said it was devastating for the Madaba community to once again witness young lives taken so quickly and so tragically. "How long shall we continue mourning the deaths of our children?," a sobering Madaba legislator,  Joseph Mhagama, queried. "This is a third road crash incident involving pupils during these two years. Last year we lost a kid from Njegea primary school, but also we lost a primary school pupil from Sokoine Ngadida... today we are saying goodbye to five children. These kids had big dreams, they had big hopes, but recklessness by road users, and the drivers have largely cut short our children's dreams. "Last year we mourned the loss of two kids from road crashes, this year again, we're mourning the death of five kids,” the lawmaker stated. Road danger blights the school journeys.  Every day more than 3,000 children and adolescents die or are injured in road accidents, according to the manifesto for road safety by Global Network for Road Safety Legislators. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), among all road traffic crashes, 26 per cent involve children and adolescents. “Road crashes are the leading cause of death for children and young adults aged 5-29 years globally,” reads the WHO Global Road Safety Status report of 2018. It is also suggested that a child in Africa is twice as likely to die on the roads as a child in any other region. Thus, unlike their peers in wealthier regions, the vast majority of schoolchildren in urban Africa– over 80 per cent in one study-walk to school, and they usually do so unaccompanied. Ms Mary Kessy, Road Safety Program Coordinator, WHO Tanzania, says children are generally among the most vulnerable road users. "Children walk, play or live on the road, and this exposes them to traffic injuries. Because of their age they lack experience and are less visible to other road users due to their small figure. They are often not aware of the risks hence become innocent victims in crashes,” she says. The WHO official says the road environment is rarely developed with consideration for children’s needs and nature and as a result road traffic injuries claim a considerable number of lives among the young group. According to the Police Report of 2018, on average, two children died each month and four others injured in traffic crashes. The report shows that 21 children died and 48 others were injured and they belong to the 7-12 years age group, according to the Head of Legal Department at the Traffic Headquarters, Superintendent of Police (SP), Deus Sokoni. Given that some of the incidents go unreported, the figures could be higher than those in the police reports. A child living in Tanzania, where the road traffic mortality rate is high, is certainly most vulnerable. Incidents of students hit by motorists in their school environments, especially where roads cut across, are still rampant despite efforts by road traffic stakeholders to arrest the situation. Road crash related deaths among children is a global burden. The matter caught the attention of stakeholders at the recently held Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety. “It is a devastating reality that two million young people have lost their lives and 100 million more have been injured since the first Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety,” noted Saul Billingsley, Executive Director of the FIA Foundation at the 3rd Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety held in Stockholm, Sweden last week. “We need urgent and serious action to address this leading killer of young people,” he pleaded. His sentiments were echoed by South African activist Zoleka Mandela, a Global Ambassador of the Child Health Initiative. “Our children are crying out for action to protect them from the biggest threat to their lives- dangerous roads,” said Zoleka Mandela. “I implore our leaders to stop paying lip service and start investing energy and money into simple solutions that can save our children,” she urged. Mandela, granddaughter of the late Nelson Mandela, has helped lead a ‘Safe Schools’ South Africa project. This is a pioneering initiative in South Africa combining education and training on road safety with infrastructure to keep children safe on the way to school. The Child Health Initiative on the other hand has come up with simple, proven and universal measures; The ‘speed vaccine’-that can make streets safe and livable for everyone. “A child hit by a car at 20 miles an hour (30 km/h) can survive. Hit at 50mph (80km/h) it is most likely the child will die,” reads the Speed Vaccine citation, adding. “Every day 3,000 children are killed or seriously injured on the world’s roads. By failing to tackle vehicle speed, we’re failing to protect our young.” The Initiative argues that reducing speed by design on roads where kids live, and where they walk or cycle to school, is urgent. In the wake of the Songea tragedy, Madaba lawmaker, Mhagama appealed for more interventions to make roads safer for children. “I appeal to the government to make sure that road signs are installed sufficiently in all areas where there is high use of roads, especially among children,” prayed the legislator.  “We should organise road safety education programs not only for pedestrians but also for the drivers,” he added. Ms Kessy echoes the call for a shift in the current child health agenda, which has largely neglected road safety. In order to increase the safety of novice road users, she says authorities must establish and enforce reduced speed limits for vehicles around schools, residential and play areas. Currently, the proposed speed is 30km/h. Another viable intervention, she notes, is by establishing infrastructure to separate road users. For example, separate traffic lanes for cyclists and motorcyclists, and sidewalks for pedestrians. "We also need to establish and enforce graduated driver licensing systems in the country," adds Ms Kessy. She says further that measures that address speed and alcohol use among all road users would save many of these children's lives and would generally improve the safety of all other road users. Other proposed interventions are use of protective equipment in vehicles such as child passenger restraint systems, booster seats and seat-belts, and a rear seating position for children. Ms Kessy says compliance is pivotal to road crashes reduction and that can be enhanced through the introduction of legislation and enforcement, public awareness campaigns, and strategies addressing issues of access and affordability.       