VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has called on the public to join forces with the government in a bid to end the growing gender based violence and sexual abuse against boys. She asked all members of the community to take part in the efforts to end the violence that hinders development at family, community and national level. Mama Samia made the statements yesterday in Bariadi District, Simiyu region at the event to mark International Women’s Day. “Children should be protected from all forms of violence, parents and guardians have a role to play on ending such violence that tortures the children and other victims physically and psychologically. We can’t build a strong community in this way,” she said at the event that was broadcast live. She asked women and children protection committees to work objectively, putting forward national interest by not defending culprits of sexual and gender based violence. “Women are also the potential players in the building of the national economy as the majority of them work in the agriculture and industrial sector so any violence to them will affect the country’s vision,” said the Vice- President. To achieve the target, all members of the society should remain one in the fight against all forms of violence as in most of the time perpetrators are the closest members of the family of the victim. Giving out the official statistics, the VP said in the year 2016 , a total of 31,9 9 6 incidents on gender based violence were reported, compared to 41,416 cases in 2017 whereby female victims were 27,9 45 and 19 ,7 7 1 were male. “Women are the caretakers of families while children are the future manpower of the country, so they need special attention on their safety and security”, she said. “It has been difficult for members of the family to report to the authority when the perpetrator has a close relationship to the victim, as a result the case is dealt with in the family,” she added. Earlier, the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu said the agenda on promotion of gender equality isn’t for women only. She was of the view that, men should also be involved and take part in the campaign for proper realisation of the goals. She showered praise to the vice-president for being a good example to women and girls that they have ability to serve the nation and being positive changes in all aspects of life. “We thank President John Magufuli for trusting women and giving them leadership roles in the government, we haven’t let him down and we shall maintain the same spirit,” the minister said. On his welcoming notes, Simiyu Regional Commissioner Anthony Mtaka said they would continue to cooperate with development stakeholders to ensure right to education for girls is realised. Mr Mtaka maintained that with education girls will be able to participate in development activities. “Should we manage to help girls meet their target, then the community will be able to address all the challenges. So it is crucial for us to work as a team,” he said. He asked parents and guardians to prioritise education for their children for their brighter future.