KATAVI Region has set aside 856m/-for fighting against Covid-19 infections as the deadly viral disease continues plaguing the world. Already 14 cases have been so far recorded in Tanzania, but no death yet that has been reported. Equally nine Covid-19 centres have been established in four councils in the region. Speaking at a public health committee (PHC) meeting in Mpanda Municipal Council at the weekend, Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC), Juma Homera mentioned the isolation centres as Rungwa and Mpanda secondary schools and Lyamba lya Mfipa Hotel. Others are Kabungu Secondary School and Kalinga Beach Hotel located in Tanganyika District Council and Msaginya College in Nsimbo District Council. Mpimbwe Secondary School in Mpimbwe Council and Inyonga Primary School located in Mlele District Council are also on the list. “The areas bordering the neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the neighbouring regions of Kigoma, Rukwa and Tabora will routinely be checked by immigration officers to identify visitors who are entering the region so that they may be screened,” said the RC. He called on health providers to adhere to medical ethics while attending to patients. . For his part, Katavi Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Abdallah Malela urged residents to refrain from creating fake news as well as misinformation of Covid-19. Meanwhile, traders in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region, have been directed to put at their business places equipment which is used in the control of the deadly viral disease short of which defaulters will be subject to pay a fine of 50,000/-. Equally residents have been warned not to enter business premises which have no equipment for controlling Covid-19. Such directives have been issued by Nkasi District Council Executive Director (DED), Missana Kwangula during an exclusive interview held in his office in the small town of Namanyere. Petty traders in Namanyere told this paper that the price of buckets of water used for washing hands had been hiked. Ms Mary Adam, a shop owner, in Namanyere said a bucket of water of 20 litres previous was sold at 10,000/-, but the price had gone up to 25,000/-. “Traders from Mbeya have taken the advantage of the shortage of water buckets in Namanyere by hiking the price,” said Mr John Chiwalala, a petty trader.