MOROCCO has allocated 20 sponsored vacancies yearly for Tanzanian students to study Master and PhD in various fields, with the purpose of strengthening ties between the two states. That was said recently in Dar es Salaam by the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco to Tanzania, Mr Abdelilah Benryane while marking Francophone 50th Anniversary, adding that it was unfortunate that in 2018, the vacancies were not exploited by the students. He said that promoting French language in Tanzania will facilitate communication and increase the volume of investments in the country from Francophone (French speaking) countries. “French is the fourth on a list of the most used languages on the internet. So, it will facilitate communication. The ability to speak more than one international language will provide Tanzanians with more employment opportunities,” he said, adding that they had invited the government of Tanzania to be an observer of OIF. Mr Benryane, who is the Vice-President of the organisation, assured the commitment of the Internal Organisation of Francophonie (OIF) to working closely with Tanzania in all aspects of cooperation. “We have found that people should start to be taught French at the grassroots so that they won’t struggle when they reach university level,” he noted, adding that it was crucial for people to muster more than one language. Meanwhile, the government of France has set aside 1.10bn/- (€384,000) to promote French language in Tanzania for two years, including sponsoring 30- 50 students in the country to study French. This was said during the occasion by French Ambassador to Tanzania, Frederic Clavier, while in the company of fellow envoys from Switzerland, Comoros, Morocco, Canada, Belgium and the DRC. He said that the programme will be implemented in the 2020/21 fiscal year, according to the direction of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology for tutors teaching the language in institutions. The envoy said that in Tanzania there were also institutions like Alliance Française in Dar es Salam, Arusha and Zanzibar, where every year 1,500 students learn the language, besides Dar es Salaam University College of Education (DUCE), which also started it in 2018 to sharpen its students/teachers, who then went to teach in primary and secondary schools as well as in other higher learning institutions.