IT has been a fierce war for the teams fighting to rid themselves of the relegation red line, with KMC and Mwadui, whose machinery won them 12 points in their last five games, placed them close to redemption at last. As teams regurgitate during this period when the Mainland Premier League has been brought to a 30-day halt due to the outbreak of the coronavirus around the globe, most look back to see how they performed and plan their battle in the remaining matches, when the league resumes. The league was put on halt, following an order by the government through Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on March 17th this year. Premier Majaliwa announced suspension of all sporting activities and events that are of a huge public nature, as part of strengthening preventive measures to avoid the spread of COVID-19. The four-team relegation from the top flight, added with two others to face play-off games, further escalated complications in the whole battle. The most troubled in the last five games of the league are Alliance FC who have squandered 15 points when they lost all five games, to record the worst of all performance. The Mwanza- based youthful side are placed 18th on the log with 29 points after playing 29 games. Mbao FC who are placed 19th with 23 points seemed to head for relegation abattoir. Once a team that troubled big guns, Mbao FC penned the second worst results in their fivegame run. They managed only a point while losing 14 points after drawing once and losing other four matches. Despite being at the bottom of the table with 15 points, Singida United woke up from a slumber to win their fifth match after losing four previous ones. Though they are still far from relegation safety with nine matches in hand, Singida United can pocket 42 points if they win all, other ways relegation is beckoning them. With 30 points in hand, Mbeya City are still on the relegation line at the 17th place. The last five-game run saw them pocketing 6 points while dropping nine others after winning two games and losing three others from 29-game outings. KMC, Mwadui, who raced clear of the relegation, they are not too safe despite having brilliant results in the last five-game run. The two teams joined the league leaders Simba, to become the trio with the best results in the last five games staged prior to the premier league suspension. Relegation threat seemed to have woken up Mwadui and KMC from slumber. Both sides were at the deep red line prior to winning four out of five latest matches. Both Mwadui and KMC have been very unfriendly to the football giants Simba and Yanga. Mwadui was the first team to beat Simba during the earliest stage of the league while KMC also staged the big upset to Yanga in their fourth match. Simba suffered 1-0 loss to Mwadui and the same score margin was recorded by KMC in their recent victory over Yanga. Yanga, who drew 1-1 with Namungo in their last game, are second after pocketing 10 points from three victories, a draw and one loss to KMC. The team remained at the third place with 51 points at the league’s stoppage time. Azam, who are second overall with 54 points and 17 points behind leaders are the third best in five-game show after collecting nine points out of 15 maximum points. The Icecream makers have won three games while losing two others. Placed at the 16th position with 31 points, are Ndanda who have added 5 points from the five games. They have won one match, drew two others and lost two games. Fourth-placed Namungo are the team with the highest number of draws in their last five matches. They have stamped four draws with one victory to reap nine points.