BANCABC Tanzania has won a visa e-commerce issuing growth award for its innovation and dedication towards facilitating secure online transactions in the country. BancABC Tanzania Managing Director, Imani John said the bank has been recognised by Visa with an award for the most online transaction. "We are pleased to have received this award in such a competitive market and it shows how committed we are in serving our customers and ensuring that we make their transactions easier.," said John adding that we really thank our customers who have trusted us through using our Visa pre- paid cards in making online payments. We are committed to providing even more cut edging innovative solutions to uphold this position and ensure our customers’ experience is enhanced further. This has been made possible through the bank’s unique pre-paid visa cards that work perfectly well with a strong proposition that drives usage. It is the second time for the bank, which is part of Atlas Mara, a London listed entity to win the same award. In 2016, BancABC Tanzania was awarded a trophy by Visa as being the leader in e-commerce transactions. On his side, BancABC Tanzania Managing Head of Digital and Alternative Channels, Silas Matoi said, "We are pleased to have received this award in such a competitive market and it shows how committed in serving our customers and ensuring that we make their transactions easier.” He added that we really appreciate our customers who have adapted using our Visa card in making online payments. You are the one who has made us win this award and the award belongs to you. We feel proud to continue serving you and we promise to continue offering quality and excellent service. Matoi said in the endeavor to promote safe and secure online transactions, anyone can own the Visa card regardless of whether they have an account with the BancABC or not. BancABC Visa Cash Card is an easily reloadable pre-paid card that eliminates the inconveniences and insecurity of carrying cash around’. ‘Our cards comes with high level security feature, a proven technology that is already in use all around the world providing increased protection against any fraud. For that reason, I call upon Tanzanians to continue using our cards in making online transactions as they are secure and very convenience. In addition, our visa cards can be used as it is accessible 24/7 over 2.7 million VISA branded ATM's worldwide. Over 46 million VISA Merchants retail outlets worldwide, and over 400 Visa branded ATM's in Tanzania &  1,000 VISA merchant outlets in Tanzania’ he said. Speaking at the same event, Visa Country Manager, Olive Njoroge said "We do appreciate the efforts that our partners BancABC Tanzania are doing, for the way they have pushed and created awareness to their customers that they can use their cards not only to pay merchants or to withdraw cash but also to pay through online. It is really a big success and therefore we have come together to recognise those efforts’ said Njoroge adding that the Visa cards are very secure and can be used in any point of sales where Visa cards are accepted. 