AS the World Health Organisation (WHO), the United Nations body responsible for international public health battles the pandemic coronavirus, it should be noted some changes will occur in the routine lives of people in every country. These changes will interfere with the way some people used to run their lives, eke out a living and alter their cultures simply to cope up with new ways to address the scourge. Like of late, several countries including Tanzania have discouraged unnecessary gatherings and handshakes, which day in day out has been the way the citizens salute one another. This is simply a measure including self-quarantine in homes to limit unnecessary visits and people commuting, because in the course of people intermingling, chances of one who has been infected spreading the virus becomes high. In another escalation of the fight against Covid-19, the number of hours and patrons visiting pubs and any entertainment joint will be affected, meaning that their incomes will dwindle. The list may be long, however, all these are measures being taken in good faith by the government(s) to tame the disease that started in China recently, but has escalated globally and caused deaths. As the citizens take such measures, caution should also be taken in the society against quack doctors, herbalists and conmen who would exploit the situation by duping them that they have special medicine for the disease. Everyone should be cautious of such conmen who would charge them money to spray their homes with claims that once a homestead is sprayed with their concoctions, the whole family would be safe. Equally, any herbalist or preacher who would claim to have powers to keep off, pray or treat any Covid-19 suspect without reporting to the government hospitals for quarantine and treatment should be summarily considered as an enemy of the human cause. Everyone should know that to date there is still no cure of the disease, however, the WHO encourages citizens to check websites and through national and local public health authority. It should be noted that most of the people who become infected experience mild illness and recover, but it can be more severe for others. Take care of your health and protect others by doing the following: Wash your hands frequently and regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. This is because washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands.