IN life, on many occasions we are confronted with situations wherein we are required to make a decision. When you make a decision there is always a risk whether everything would happen as you expected. So what do you do when there are risks associated with your decision? In such a situation, majority would opt not to exercise their decision making capability and will stay put. Is this the right approach? Do you know that not taking a decision on an important matter is more risky than taking the decision? Suppose you have got an exciting job offer in another country, but your spouse is a working professional in your home country and thus can’t accompany you to another location. What do you do in such a situation? You got to take a decision – either to accept the job offer or reject it, there is no third option on the table. Decision making involves proper analysis of the situation consisting clear identification of potential risks and expected rewards. But whatever be the case, you got to make a decision. People who are scared of making decisions usually suffer from a phenomenon called “decision paralysis”. ‘Decision paralysis’ is a condition of not being able to decide on a matter when there is no clear cut best option. It leads to an ever longer period to gather more information in the hope that more information will guide the decision maker to an option that is clearly better. So when it is the question of taking a decision to invest your hard earned money, for many the decision paralyses comes into the picture. Nowadays, there are so many choices, so many financial products in the market and so many attractive offers. Moreover, it’s all bundled with financial jargons and thus it becomes really difficult for anyone to understand and take a logical decision. Also there is plenty of information available on the web, in the media and in the neighborhood. This makes decision making process much more complex. All these things coupled with the fear of making a wrong decision lead us to decision paralysis. We don’t take any decision and start postponing it. This is a typical paradox which many human beings are facing in today’s high-tech world. In olden days, people often use to complain that there are very limited choices available and one has to decide within the available options only. Today the situation is just opposite; there exist so many varied options or alternatives that often it becomes difficult to make a choice. Even if we have to buy a simple tooth-brush there are multiple brands available and we don’t know which one to buy. Similar is the case in personal finance issues, there are so many options available that one is not sure which one to opt ultimately. So this parasite of ‘decision paralysis’ is affecting many people from the investing community as well, who keep postponing their investment decisions due to one or other reason. This is what indicates the one’s mind set. The famous saying by Henry Ford conveys it the best way i.e. “whether you think you can or can’t, you are right.” In order to replace old habits through a change in your mindset, there are three steps you must follow: first, begin by specifically identifying the results you want; then create and develop actions that will accomplish those results and lastly examine your beliefs about those actions to determine if they are holding you back in making the decision. So when it comes to money matters, take a smart decision such that you achieve financial independence in your life, but for God sake don’t remain indecisive for long else you would surely miss the bus. Cheers.