LET us ponder of these lines–“so simple to live, so simple to love, so simple to smile, but so difficult to be simple”. Have we ever thought why it is so difficult to be simple? You would observe that we have unnecessary complicated our life for no reason. Remember, simplicity is a great virtue, however in the modern era there are very few people who subscribe to the concept of simplicity. Everywhere there seems to be a rat race to outlive an artificial life, which is nothing but full of pomp-show and nowhere near to the real meaning of simplicity-to what it stands for. Nowadays, a person is known not by the qualities or virtues one possesses but by the kind of car that he/she is driving or the palatial house in which one is living. Without distorting its integral meaning let us define simplicity in simple words. Simplicity is the opposite of needless complication, so the simple person is just they present themselves to be. What you see is what you get— and what you get is honest, straightforward, and uncomplicated. A simple person does not need external props (the latest and most expensive watches, mobiles, cars, clothes etc.) to bolster up their ego; they are comfortable and at ease with who they are, and they do not base their identity on their possessions or achievements. There is no pretence, no show, no acting out a role to impress others. They are who they are, no frills added. People with the virtue of simplicity are clear and transparent, and their relationships are honest and solid. There is no secret agenda, no hidden intentions. The simple person is never two-faced; he/she is sincere and straight, with nothing to hide. The virtue of simplicity goes hand-in-hand with the virtues of humility and sincerity. From the above text, you may be thinking that my today’s writing is more philosophical and as such has no relevance to the core subject of ‘money matters’. Is that so? Not really, because your decision to live a simple life or the opposite of it will certainly have some impact on your financial transactions, one way or the other. The moment you decide to purchase a car, the matter does not end by just paying the selling price to the vendor, but this decision will come with many associated costs like fuel, insurance, repair & maintenance etc. So by taking this decision in one stroke you have created additional liabilities which ultimately will reduce your disposal income in one way or the other. There could be numerous examples of this kind. We as human being always wish to dress smartly but our definition of being smart differs from one person to another. A simple person will prefer to wear modest clothes which are cheaper but equally befitting one’s personality. On the other hand the so called modern era people prefer to buy branded clothes which may turn out to be 3 or 4 times costlier on one side, while in terms of modesty these clothes will nowhere match the clothes worn by a simple person. Why are we so obsessed with the so-called branded products? A “potato” will serve the same purpose in your kitchen whether you buy it from a roadside vegetable market or a swanky supermarket. A watch costing 50 dollars will exactly display the same correct time as another watch which one has decided to buy for 5000 dollars. But from monetary perspective it makes a huge difference to one’s cash flow. So by now you must have understood as to why we term simplicity as a great virtue. While on the subject it is equally important to clarify that the above text in no way suggests that we shouldn’t modernise our life style. For sure one must transform with the changing technology but everything goes with affordability. If one can afford only a motorbike then it does not make sense at all to go for a car. Therefore, the “law of affordability” should always come into force, whenever you decide to buy anything. It’s all about living simple and enjoying life. Become HYPERLINK “http://www.inforesearchlab. com/cheapskates. chtml” frugal, scale down your requirements and simplify your life. Remember “less is more”, it is only the mindset which drives us from simplicity to complexity. Simple living encompasses a number of different voluntary practices to simplify one’s lifestyle. These may include reducing one’s possessions or increasing selfsufficiency. Simple living may be characterized by individuals being satisfied with what they need rather than want. The most important thing I’ve learned about simplicity is that simplicity wins in the long run. Simple is stickier than complexity, and it survives. I think nature teaches us that, and we learn it time and again in work and in life. Finally let me conclude this topic by sharing a famous quote stating - “as you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler; solitude will not be solitude, poverty will not be poverty, nor weakness will remain as weakness”. Cheers and remain simple!!!