THE government has emphatically stated that when it comes to the questions of rule of law and justice dispensation, no one is above the law. Speaking in Dodoma on Sunday, Permanent Secretary for the Ministry of Information, Arts, Culture and Sports, Dr Hassan Abbasi said Tanzanians, especially political leaders should take note that no person in the country is indispensable upon convicted of a criminal offence. Dr Abbasi was reacting to the claims from a section of the public, including Chadema members and supporters that the recent judgment delivered by Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court Dar es Salaam against some opposition party’s leaders, including its national Chairman, Freeman Mbowe was politically motivated and that it was unfair. Dr Abbasi, who doubles as Chief Government Spokesperson, said according to the country’s justice dispensation system, the judiciary is always independent in case handling up to the stage of delivering judgment. “Records in our country have proved beyond reasonable doubt that the judiciary has always independently discharged its responsibilities,” he said. He added: “If there are some people who claim that Mbowe and his colleagues were unfairly judged by the court simply because they belong to the opposition party what about the judgment that was issued by the court against former cabinet ministers Basil Mramba and his colleague, Daniel Yona?” Dr Abbasi was referring to the verdict on the former cabinet ministers issued by Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in 2015, which found them guilty of abuse of office. They were accused of irregularly mishandling gold audit contracts for the government. After spending some months in jail, the court released on conditions that they would serve the remaining part of their sentences by doing community service at Palestina Hospital in Kinondoni Municipality, Dar es Salaam City. The offence was committed when Mr Mramba was serving as the Minister for Finance and Planning while Yona was discharging his responsibilities as Minister for Energy and Minerals. According to the Chief Government Spokesperson, Mbowe and his colleagues should consider themselves lucky for being given an alternative way of serving their sentence instead of remaining behind bars. He said in Tanzania, people seek justice at courts, adding that it was inconceivable to find some individuals claiming that justice was not done on Chadema leaders. “Individuals who raise claims that the judiciary didn’t do just on Chadema leaders are weak and their arguments are weak as well,” Dr Abbasi insisted. Last Tuesday, the Dar es Salaam court found nine people, including eight Chadema leaders, guilty of unlawful assembly and uttering seditious statements. They were ordered to serve five months in prison or pay a fine amounting to 350m/-. In the list were Mbowe (Hai), Halima Mdee( Kawe), Ester Bulaya, (Bunda), John Heche (Tarime Rural) , Rev Peter Msigwa ( Iringa Urban), Ester Matiko( Tarime Urban), John Mnyika(Kibamba), Dr Vicent Mashinji who crossed to the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi and Chadema Deputy secretary general ( Zanzibar) Salum Mwalimu. However, they managed to raise the money with President John Magufuli rescuing Msigwa by paying 38m/- for him. Meanwhile, Dr Abbasi briefed reporters on latest development with regard to implementation of various projects, saying the government has set a record by managing to bring clean and safe water to Tabora residents from Lake Victoria, ending years of outcry. Dr Abbasi said water was flowing in Igunga, Nzega and Tabora urban, adding that technicians were monitoring the project to establish if everything was fine. He also spoke on the government resolve to build Msalato International airport and Bagamoyo-Pangani-Horohoro- Lungalunga-Malindi (Kenya) road after acquiring loans from African Development Bank (AfDB). Plans were also underway to build state of the art New Ruvu Bridge. He reminded Tanzanians of the recent International Monetary Fund (IMF) assessment of the country’s economic growth report, saying things were on the right track, adding good times were ahead for Tanzanians.