LAND rent defaulters have until next Monday to clear their outstanding debts, or be taken to court for breaching ownership conditions, the government has warned. Land Commissioner, Nathaniel Mathew issued a twoday ultimatum on Friday during a meeting with civic leaders here, insisting that those who already had been served with demand notices would not be spared come March 9, 2020. He said the government had from yesterday kicked off its national wide operation to crack the whip against all people, companies, public and private institutions as well as owners of industrial and commercial plots with accumulated land rents arrears. However, he added owners of land who would receive demand notices from yesterday had been given extension until April 01, 2020 to pay or face legal action. “Starting March 9, we will start sending all defaulters that have already been served with notices to court and confiscate some of the properties using brokers, to whom we have already given the assignment until they pay, and for those who will receive demand notices from today, they will be required to pay by April 01, 2020,” he said. He told the local leaders that all land owners were duty bound as per the law to pay land rent just as they were paying their house rent to the landlords. “As per the legislation, the President is the custodian of the land, for us who buy plots of land we are just renting; Therefore, we are required to pay rent as per the law,’’ insisted Mr Mathew. Land rent is an amount paid annually by land owners as a fee for renting the land. The land rent differs depending on the location of the land. It is charged per square meters. The Land Commissioner said that in ensuring that all land owners were paying rent, his office had kicked off training sessions to local government leaders on the importance of paying rent so that they can help to pass the knowledge to the communities they were leading. According to him, the training session begun with Dodoma which is the country’s capital, and that it will be rolled out countrywide. “Our target in the ministry is to collect about 180bn/-in land rent every year, therefore without engaging you as local leaders who have many people within your communities, we cannot attain this target,’’ insisted Mr Mathew.