DO you bargain when you buy any item? The answer could be “yes” as well as “no”. Usually you do bargaining when you have to buy a costly item, but you may be ignoring the bargaining power when buying small stuff. The underlying principal is– irrespective of the price/ cost of the item to be bought, bargaining must come into play. We normally think that it may be a sheer waste of time to bargain, when the purchase value of an item is bit low, say TZS. 2,000 or 3,000. It is nothing new that on daily basis and on various occasions we are involved in the purchase of many daily use household items. Image you are buying your daily requirements of vegetables/ fruits and with effective bargain if you succeed in getting cheaper just by TZS. 1,000/=. Do you know how much you will save per month [TZS. 30,000/=], and then per year [TZS. 365,000/=]? It is simple to calculate but difficult to comprehend. If the tool ‘bargain’ is so powerful for small value purchases, imagine the outcome if it is applied judiciously while buying high value items. This may lead to saving worth thousands of shillings if not in millions or in billions. However, bargaining is a skill which needs to be learnt with bit of an experience. Its first principle is to know the characteristics of the goods you intend to buy. The next important thing you need to know is on the prevailing base price of that commodity in the market. Once you have the desired details on these parameters, you become competent for bargaining on that item. In addition, bargaining also requires some special personal traits/skills in a person such as- patience, perseverance and a mindset to establish a perfect cord with the seller. Such qualities will surely put a person into an advantageous position while entering into any sort of bargaining exercise, whatever the subject matter may be. Remember, today’s world is very dynamic and there is nothing static as such. Usually the prices of many essential commodities vary from one day to another, and from one place to another place. Even when you are booking air tickets for your planned foreign travels, don’t just book tickets on spur of the moment. Spare some time to study the details of various offers, which most airlines normally announce at different intervals in order to attract customers. Plus there is also a concept of peak and lean season for the airline industry and you must know this cycle of different seasons. Often we make the mistake of ignoring small things without clearly understanding its cumulative impact on a long term basis. While on the subject, it is pertinent to know that every penny saved through a good bargain is nothing but an addition to your existing income and through this way you will now have more disposable money to spend or to save. Some people think that it is below their dignity to bargain for small value purchases. Such people are under a wrong notion because they forget that you as a customer have the right to demand goods which are suitable not only on qualitative terms but even on the price front as well. Possessing a good bargaining skill will even put a person ahead of his/her colleagues in the office. There are people in offices which are known for their good negotiation skills and most organizations value them the most, as they strive hard to save lot of money for their companies on procurements of many high value goods/commodities. Possessing such skills is not the birth right of any few selected individuals but such skills can easily be acquired or learned by an ordinary human being while undertaking their day-to-day petty purchases. Even while attending a job interview, are we not made to bargain on the salary we expect from an organisation? Good bargainer’s will surely strike a better deal and those who lack such qualities may end up in accepting a comparatively lower salary, which probably may not commensurate to the skills they respectively possess. What does this finally lead to, nothing but a frustration on the job and later on calling it a quit due to non-satisfaction? Modern day traders are smart enough to price their products according to the profile of a customer. You can be taken for a ride if you are not cautious while buying things. I hope now you understand the importance of the hard bargaining, which is required to strike a good deal not only on your daily purchases but in every walk of your life. Therefore, start applying the principle of ‘hard bargaining’ on every purchase you intend to make and I am sure you will never repent on any of your decision involving money matters. Cheers!!!