Tobacco firm supports construction of Tabora girls’ dormitories By ALLAN NTANA in Tabora ALLIANCE One Tobacco Tanzania Limited (AOTTL) donated building materials worth 24m/-to the Tabora Regional Commissioner (RC), Aggrey Mwanri to support construction of girls’ secondary school dormitories in the region. Speaking at the handing over occasion, AOTTL Agronomy Director, David Mayunga said the donation will help in constructing girls' dormitories in four secondary schools in Tabora and Uyui districts in the region. He said Alliance One Tobacco Tanzania Limited value child education, that's why they have decided to support the region so as to improve learning environment. He added that the materials will be allocated to four secondary schools namely Idete and Nsimbo in Uyui District and Ndevelwa and Itonjanda in Tabora municipality. Mayunga briefed that the donated materials included 270 long iron sheets, 300 bags of cement and 320 rough bars. He said Idete will get 220 iron sheets and 80 rough bars and Nsimbo will be given 50 iron sheets and 100 bags of cement while Ndevelwa and Itonjanda each will get 100 bags of cement and 120 rough bars. 'We value child education as enshrined in our Agricultural Labor Practices (ALP) program, we believe every child must be given the opportunity to go to school, realize their potential and excel, for this reason we discourage child labor among tobacco growers', he said. Mayunga noted that in some areas children walk up to 15 km on the way to school, this causes many drop outs, truancy and early pregnancies among the school girls', that's why they selected these schools. Tabora Regional Commissioner (RC), Aggrey Mwanri thanked the AOTTL for the support as it will significantly accelerate their efforts toward abolishing truancy, early pregnancy and childhood marriage among their students. He revealed that the constructed dorms will render good attendance, punctuality and high performance in schools hence called for other stakeholders to help them so as to accomplish their goals. Tabora and Uyui District Commissioners Komanya Kitwala and Gift Msuya applauded a good job done by the tobacco company for reinforcing their efforts toward construction of dormitories in all secondary schools.