HEALTH authorities have placed under quarantine all individuals who came into close contact with the first confirmed victim of Coronavirus, a move necessary to contain the spread of the novel disease. A 46-year old Tanzanian woman, who jetted back into the country from Belgium over the weekend, tested positive on Monday. On her arrival in the country from Belgium on Sunday, the Arusha-based lady went direct for self-isolation at Temi Valley Hotel, in Arusha when she developed coronavirus symptoms. She visited the Mount Meru Hospital for treatment and her sample was sent to the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), which confirmed that she was infected with COVID-19. Mr Majaliwa said yesterday that, already the government has taken samples of those who are quarantined for testing at the Government Chemist Laboratory Authority (GCLA) to establish whether they have been affected or not. “They have been quarantined for the next 14 days for further medical attention, and as the government we are still might have contacted the women,” said the Premier. He assured that the government will continue to screen in a thermo scanner all passengers arriving in the country from abroad and those who will be found with symptoms of coronavirus, will be taken to quarantines as per the requirements. Right now, the government has already set up quarantines in all regions with airports that handle domestic and international flights. For Dar es Salaam region, the quarantine is at the Mloganzila hospital, Mawenzi hospital will serve the Kilimanjaro region while in Mwanza the centre is at the Buswelu. “In Zanzibar, the quarantines are at Mnazi Mmoja hospital of Unguja while Chake Chake hospital will be used to handle coronavirus cases in Pemba island,” explained the Prime Minister insisting that the government will continue to strengthen the checkups at all border posts. Earlier on the day the Arusha Regional Commissioner Mrisho Gambo said they have already identified a driver who was hired by the woman who tested positive for coronavirus. The driver, after dropping her at the hotel, transported other two passengers to Karatu District, before coming back to home in Arusha where he joined his family. Narrating further, the Regional Commissioner said on the next day children of the driver went to school where they got into contact with other children, saying they have already contacted the school on the matter. “In Karatu, the driver and his passengers visited Mwema Children’s home so we have dispatched a team of experts to Karatu to take samples from those who were involved in the chain,’’ he said. The news of the first case of coronavirus in the country has sent a shockwave in multiple areas with a number of measures implemented, including hotel closure, intensification of caution on controlling spread of the virus and cancellation of meetings. The Arusha Regional government has locked down a hotel where the infected lady stayed after jetting in the country. Since Monday evening, nobody was allowed to leave the hotel – including the staff as have been directed to self-isolate at the compound and nobody is allowed in as well. Mr Gambo said the samples have been sent to Dar es Salaam and now wait for test results that will lead to a decision on fate of the persons isolated at the hotel facility and all those in network with the woman who arrived at KIA via RwandAir. Meanwhile in Arusha streets, new business has emerged in selling masks that people take as precautionary measures against the deadly virus that has affected more people in China and Italy. Vendors started selling the masks on Monday afternoon and the price ranges from 2,000 / - to 6,000 / -. At KIA, almost all the staff were seen wearing masks and management of the airport has put in place a lot of sanitisers at every corner of the busy airport. Aviation stakeholders and health experts held an emergency meeting in January to devise strategies for prevention of the Novel Coronavirus outbreak that has been declared a global public health emergency by the W orld Health Organisation (W HO). According to Kilimanjaro Airports Development Company (KADCO) Acting Managing Director, Engineer Christopher Mukoma, KIA stands ahead in terms of precautionary measures as per assessments done, KIA has scored 90 per cent marks, 10 above the international standard set at 8 0 per cent. KADCO has intensified precautionary moves at the airport, with staff getting more training on how to handle visitors (passengers). The KIA Principle Health Officer, Dr Charles Mwaipopo noted that they are running the KIA Public Emergency Contingency and Health Plan since the eruption of Ebola and other diseases and now were handling the Covid-19 by testing all passengers.