THE government will intervene to ensure equipment stuck at Dar es Salaam Port for a grand water project for Mwanga, Same and Korogwe districts are cleared. The 241bn/-project has stalled for a while, shuttering hopes of people in the respective districts to be relieved of water woes that have lasted for decades. The Ministry of Water will liaise with Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) management to speed up the clearance of the equipment and the implementation of the water project. This was said by Minister for Water, Prof Makame Mbarawa, after inspecting the ongoing project in Mwanga and Same districts, attributing the challenge to some irresponsible government officers. “We are made to understand that as far as the implementation of this project is concerned has been very low and this is due to several challenges, including that of some of the equipment needed for its implementation stuck at the port. “It is also so sad to learn that delays in the clearance of this equipment are also attributed to some of the officials in the responsible ministry not fulfilling their obligations, this is not fair. I will take the responsibility of contacting the TPA management to ensure by Friday 13th the construction equipment is cleared ready for the project,” he promised. Speaking during the tour, Same District Commissioner (DC), Rosemary Senyamule said the water project would increase the number of residents would access clean and safe water in the district. “Currently 43 percent of Same residents get clean and safe water supply. We urge the responsible authorities to review the project design so that more people are included in the ongoing project because when it was first designed a big number of people were left out,” she said. Earlier, Mwanga DC Thomas Apson said the water project would be big relief to residents, who he said were getting water for only six hours a day. “Mwanga residents are eagerly waiting for this project for they have been dreaming that one day they will be able to access water supply for 24 hours and this is because we in Mwanga get water supply for only six hours a day,” he said.