IFAKARA Health Institute (IHI) is implementing a rabies control project in collaboration with International Global Health in 12 wards of Tarime District from 2020 to 2023. The aim is to eliminate the disease from domestic dogs and its transmission to humans. IHI conducted a threeday workshop in Tarime at the weekend and 57 village leaders, health officers and district livestock department staff met to discuss how they would eliminate rabies in the district. Project coordinator, Dr Ahmed Lugelo, told participants that nearly 1,000-2,500 people in Mara Region were exposed to rabies infection suspected to cause about 20 deaths each year. He said the government had given 230m/-to treat each 100 cases of people infected annually. He noted that the project would also involve the use of an updated surveillance system whereby mobile phones would be given to veterinarians and medical staff to help report human bite cases to facilitate recording, access and sharing of data between control stakeholders. ‘’During the previous rabies elimination campaign conducted in the region, there were some challenges, including poor surveillance infrastructure and delays in canine vaccination campaigns while health officers did not reach the grassroots,’’ he noted. He said maintaining consistent annual canine vaccination was vital to sustaining progress towards the elimination of rabies after training whose participants would be using the experience and knowledge gained from the project to eliminate dog-mediated human rabies countrywide by 2030. He noted that IHI would sign a three-year working contract with local leaders from 12 wards that would see to it that all domestic dogs and cats in the district were vaccinated to keep off rabies infection while reporting each new cases associated with rabies. ‘’But even if you have been vaccinated, you should still get urgent medical help if you’re bitten or scratched by an animal that may have had rabies, while ensuring that all dogs and cats more than four months of age must be vaccinated against rabies and keep vaccinations current at all times,’’ he noted. According to Mr Joel Changalucha, a researcher from IHI, most people do not keep dogs and cats under control which is against the law that prohibits animals to roam unsupervised as roaming pets are more likely to have been exposed to rabies than those supervised by their owners. “Once the pets are supervised accordingly and vaccinated regularly the work to control rabies in the region as well as the whole country will be easier and new bite cases will be reduced and eventually rabies will be eliminated countrywide by 2030,’’ he emphasised. Situated in Morogoro Region, IHI is a leading health research organisation in Africa, with a strong track record of developing, testing and validating innovations for health, driven by a core strategic mandate for research, training and services.