MEMBERS of the public have been urged to contribute to education development to compliment the government’s efforts to improve the education sector in the country. This was said recently by Moshi Urban Water and Sanitation Supply (Muwasa) Public Relations Officer, Rashid Nachan when handing over 60 bags of cement to Wari Secondary School in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Region. He said Muwsa donated cement to be used on the construction of three classrooms at the school to compliment efforts made by the government in improving education in the country. “The government has laid the foundation as far as the improvement of education in the country is concerned, including that of providing free education from primary to secondary schools. This should be complimented by efforts from other stakeholders to improve the education sector,” he said. The donation was part of the institutions’ contribution to the community it works in and for since its inception. Receiving the donation, Deputy Secretary with the Youth Wing of the ruling CCM Galila Wabanh’u thanked Muwsa for the donation which he said was a clear sign that the government’s efforts to improve education in the country were recognised by members of society. “May I take this opportunity to urge those responsible with the ongoing construction to ensure the bags of cement and other donations provided by other stakeholders are utilised as intended,” he said. Mr Wabanh’u, who is also a member of the CCM’s National Executive Committee (NEC) donated 200 iron sheets while former Vunjo MP Aloyce Kimaro donated 500,000/-. Other donors included Special Seats MP Esther Mmasy who donated 1,000 bricks, Kilimanjaro Ward Councillor Priscus Tarimo who came up with three lorries of construction stones, CCM Kilimanjaro Regional Office donated 10 bags of cement, CCM Hai District Office (20 cement bags), Kilimanjaro Regional CCM Women Wing (10 cement bags), Kilimanjaro Parents Regional Office (500,000/-) and Parents Moshi Urban Office (300,000/-), while a stakeholder, Monaban, donated 20 iron sheets.