THROUGH chemical reaction we are able to recognise a picture, sweet taste of an orange, good smell of a beautiful flower but physical waves of sound get into ear drum before being passed into the brain. Vibrations are the main source of sound which passes through cochlea which receives waves through hairy structure that are equipped with receptive cells for collecting sound. Due to this nature, the ability of an ear to received sound in different volumes may be damaged when a cicada sing very close to your head. Unlike other tropical insects which produce sound by flapping their wings or legs, cicadas are equipped with powerful voice box which can intimidate any other singer in the tropical forest. These mysterious insects have their voice boxes on both side of the abdomen, these are Tymbals which use special muscles to contract and expand a unique process among insects to produce sound. The Tymbals produce sound for male cicadas which sing romantic songs to attract female cicadas, to their standard these are sweetest songs originating from inner most part of the voice box. In order for a cicada to be able to produce the required sound it must contract and expand its abdomen to approximately 300 to 400 times per second and the action is repeated as the male sing a beautiful song for a female partner. Scientists say in tropical forest of Africa there are more than 450 different species with different melodies, some male are known to put their abdomen in a higher position to enable their songs to reach very far. To avoid disappointments, while flapping their wings rhythmically some cicadas are known to direct the sound where they believe a lonely female may be wondering. Some male cicadas prefer to attract their partners in an isolated area but other will congregate to form a spectacular choir with more than one million singers. Cicadas are known to sing in a louder noise than any other insects but scientists say different species may assemble in one location while singing different songs. This may be chaos to your ears but for them, every specie recognises the romantic melody and decodes the message of passion which it brings to the recipient. Acoustic experts say a human ear is capable to receive wave of sound measuring between 20 to 20,000 Hertz, a single male cicadas is able to produce 10,000 Hertz that is why a group few insects is capable of making one of the loudest choir in the world. Whenever you wonder into a tropical forest Taraaaa taraaa or Weeheeeee weeheeee are trademarks of these insects which Nyenje is their Swahili name. Usually whales use 20 Hertz to communicate while dolphins use 100 Hertz but in the plains of Serengeti elephants my call a friend or relative from a distant location by using waves which travel between 14 and 16 Hertz. Its widely believed the tropical rainforest around mount Kilimanjaro harbors one of the loudest cicadas on Earth but porters claim it’s an inspirational song which pushes them to the tallest peak in Africa. On the other side, zoologists say the size of a male cicada affect volume of sound it produce, those with bigger body have lower volume but the amplified sound which disturbs many people are produced by smaller insects. Smaller cicadas are notorious when it comes to the singing season a lonely male is capable to produce waves with 123 Hertz and attract any beautiful female rooming around its neighborhood. In Tanzania there are more than 150 different species of cicadas but Axe head or Kichwamchongoka dominate most tropical forest in southern highland, western wetlands, lake zone and northern highland. Emerald cicadas dwell in the forests on the western Arc chains of mountains such as Kipengere, Udzungwa, Uluguru, Usambara and Pare. In Africa different species of cicadas dwell in different forests but most of them are green in colour while few in black and yellow may emerge in an area once after a certain period of time. Among many creatures on the Earth, cicadas are insects which lead mysterious life which allow some species to disappear and reappear after 13 to 17 years. This is done when specie goes into a secret place where they can stay out of reach for almost two decades until situation and weather allow them to reappear in Amani forest, Udzungwa or Kitulo national park. Cicadas are very smart insects, knowing that to see the world is once in a lifetime, to reduce the danger of dying before you time most individual come out during night hours when most birds and reptiles are sleeping. Scientists say from a secret place located about 2.5 meters on the ground, a cicada is able to measure temperature on the earth’s surface and detect the right time and hours to come out. When the ground temperature reach 17.9 Centigrade, on the southern highland especially in Njombe, Makambako and Mbeya after every 13 to 17 years a unique specie of cicadas reappear and draw attention from everybody in the regions. Miraculously these insects are resilient as will dig their way out without being afraid that the surface might be covered with hard shell, water or any other obstacle. Once an insect reaches the surface it will molt by removing the old cover and wear a new one which is resistant to rain, sun and wind which dominate the weather on the earth’s surface. While being led by biological clock which is located inside their bodies, most species when they reach the earth’s surface prefer to stay in one location for about seven days. In northern regions, cicadas prefer to emerge between September and October before short rains that is why in Marangu they are known as Shiwambamvuo in simple English they are predictors of rains. In Machame, Rombo and Kibosho you will always hear a lot of rumours rotating from one village to another when the cicadas fail to sing on time. While famers wait for short rains to plants different crops, cicadas sing the songs according to their own timetable which provide them a short time on the earth’s surface. Their life-cycle allows them spend the shortest time on the earth’s surface and any individual which fail to utilise the opportunity usually die as unproductive. Approximately these schedules allow one cicada to spend a period which covers not more than four weeks on the earth’s surface. During this short period, a male must work, walk and sing very smart to get a partner and mount before his life come to an abrupt end after ejaculation, females are allowed to live until they lay eggs in a good location. At once a female cicada is capable of producing 20 to 600 eggs which she burry them into a safe location then nature take its course of terminating her life immediately after accomplishing this important duty for life. Insects which lack wings or nymphs are hatched from the eggs after ten days then nature direct them to dig 2.5 meter long burrows where they stay while eating different things including roots of plants. Most specie spends two to four years on the ground but few stay six to seventeen years before they reappear on the earth’s surface. rstanslaus@yahoo.com