SINGIDA United and Mbao FC chances of surviving relegation from the Mainland Premier League this season are dwindling as they continue to lose game after game. Mbao suffered a 2-0 defeat at the hands of KMC at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday and remained glued at 19th place on the log with 22 points from 27 outings. KMC goals were netted by Hassan Kabunda, who broke the deadlock, before Abdul Hilal doubled the lead of the hosts. For KMC, the victory slightly gave them hope of rescuing themselves from relegation as they moved a place up to 17th position after collecting 27 points from 27 matches. They moved above Mbeya City, who dropped to 18th position on 27 points but have inferior goal difference. However, both KMC and Mbeya City are still very much embroiled in the relegation waters because this season, four teams will automatically face the cut off, while two others will be engaged in play-off against two teams that will finish third and fourth in the First Division League (FDL) to decide the two teams that will play in the top flight football next season. At Liti Stadium in Singida, host Singida United will certainly need miracles to avoid the drop, after they lost 2-1 to Tanzania Prisons. Samson Mangula scored a brace for Tanzania Prisons, the first coming after 17th minute before he added the second in the 29th minute, while Singida United’s consolation goal was netted by Haruna Moshi a minute before the interval. Singida United, who are placed bottom of the log on 12 points from 27 matches sits ten points behind Mbao, who are above them. With 11 rounds remaining, it will require the Singida outfit to win all their remaining matches to earn 45 points that will give them chance to survive relegation and may be play-off. Victory against Singida United has given Tanzania Prisons much more breathing space in the mid table as they sit sixth on 41 points from 27 matches. Elsewhere, Mtibwa Sugar emerged with a 3-1win over Kagera Sugar at the CCM Gairo Stadium in Morogoro yesterday. The winners staged a comeback after being down by 1-0 with Nassor Kapama scoring for Kagera Sugar in the 6th minute. Mtibwa Sugar pulled level through Juma Luizio in the 16th minute before Awadh Juma added the second in the 69th minute. Jaffar Kibaya assured his side the vital points eight minutes before the final whistle. At the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast Region, Fully Maganga penalty in the 31st minute, rescued Ruvu Shooting from defeat at the hands of JKT Tanzania as the match ended in a 1-1 draw, while at the Ushirika Stadium in Moshi, Polisi Tanzania were held to a barren by Namungo FC. Earlier yesterday, Azam FC beat Alliance FC 1-0 at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. In a match that kicked off at 14:00 pm Frank Domayo scored the late winner to help the ‘icecream makers’ side strengthen their hold of the second position in the league with 51 points from 27 games.