PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein has invited Nigerian investors and traders to explore various business opportunities of their choice in Zanzibar. Dr Shein extended the invitation to the Nigerians when he met Nigerian High Commissioner to Tanzania, Dr Sahabi Isa Gada, leading a delegation of traders and investors from Nigeria’s IBRU company to the State House on Thursday. President Shein assured the prospective investors that Zanzibar was endowed with huge investment resources and advised the visitors to explore the sectors of their interest. He acknowledged IBRU’s investment experience in various sectors of the economy, including fisheries and invited them to Zanzibar as well. “Despite the government’s efforts to strengthen the fisheries sector and revival of the 1970s established Zanzibar Fishing Corporation, the government still needs close and firm collaboration with more experienced companies in the sector,” said the Head of State. “The Revolutionary Government has its doors open to all investors with interest to invest in Zanzibar...we have through Zanzibar Investment Promotion Agency (ZIPA) created a conducive environment for all investors,” said Dr Shein, adding that Zanzibar was in dire need of fish industries. He said fishing was part of the country’s blue economy through which Zanzibar wanted to accelerate her economic and social development. President Shein argued that it was high time African countries increased cooperation among themselves in economic and development sectors because the continent was endowed with immeasurable wealth. The high commissioner said the business delegation was an outcome of their talks at the State House when the envoy first visited President Shein on February 28, 2018. The 2018 talks centred on, among other things, the coming of Nigerian investors in Zanzibar, the envoy recalled, assuring that IBRU investors were serious and highly experienced in various sectors of the economy and had already invested in various African countries. Dr Gada further explained that the 1956 established company focused mostly on the fisheries sector in Nigeria and had wide operational network in western African countries—Togo, Cameroon, Benin, Mauritania, Gambia, as well as Angola and Namibia.