A CCM veteran politician, Dr Chrisant Mzindakaya, has called upon Rukwa residents to invest in the region, insisting that no outsider can develop their region. Dr Mzindakaya served as MP for 44 years consecutively and has invested in Sumbawanga Town by establishing a modern meat processing factory called Sumbawanga Agriculture and Animal Food Industry (SAAFI). He further noted that Rukwa residents were obliged to cooperate to bring about development to themselves and to the region at large. Equally, Dr Mzindakaya urged prominent personalities living in Dar es Salaam to feel proud of being born in Rukwa Region, adding that they must return home (Rukwa) and invest in the region endowed with abundant resources. He made the call during a meeting with elders. It was organised and coordinated by the office of Sumbawanga Municipal Director at the weekend and attracted over 400 elders based in the municipal council. During the meeting Dr Mzindakaya was elected to be it's first secretary-general. "Most of the elites and ordinary citizens from Rukwa who are residing in Dar es Salaam are not generous enough to contribute towards the development and wellbeing of the region. They should evaluate themselves," he explained. The elders who were interviewed by ‘Daily News’ hailed Dr Mzindakaya for being bold enough to urge people from Rukwa who were living in Dar es Salaam to return home and invest. They also listed the names of Rukwa prominent personalities in Dar es Salaam, including religious leaders, politicians and senior civil servants who had not returned to invest in the region. For his part, MP Aiesh Hilaly listed mega development projects, including the construction of health facilities, tarmac roads and a modern bus terminal, implemented in the municipal council for the last five years. On the other hand, Sumbawanga Municipal Director (SMD), Jacob Mtalitinya said it was a great honour to meet with elders and hear the challenges facing them and promised to address them accordingly.