MUHIMBILI National Hospital (MNH) is set to start performing kidney transplant to patients with high risk following enhanced capacity of local medical experts in surgical procedures. The high risk patients include those with HIV/AIDS, hepatitis and patients, who had undergone the procedure but it failed to recover properly and hence the need to go for another transplantation. MNH Executive Director Prof Lawrence Museru said that since the inauguration of the service in 2017, the hospital has managed to perform kidney transplant in low risk patients, who had developed kidney problems without other health complications. However, he noted that, following tremendous improvement in offering the service at the institution, their local experts are now capable of conducting the procedure 100 per cent safely and will soon start attending to patients with high risk(s). That was when Prof Museru was speaking at the opening of a seminar for religious leaders organised by MNH and Nephrology Society of Tanzania (NESOT) as part of the commemoration of the World Kidney Day that is observed annually every second Thursday in March. “Kidney specialists (nephrologists) can now conduct investigations and prepare patient for the procedure by 100 per cent, and again kidney transplant surgeons can perform medical operation on donor and transplant on recipient by 100 per cent...experts in other departments have improved their capacity by 100 per cent, particularly nurses in operating Theatre’s and Intensive Care Units (ICU), Lab technicians, Radiologists and Anaesthetists,” Prof Museru said. He noted that , early next month, experts at the national health facility will for the first perform kidney transplant without guidance from any foreign expatriate. The Director said that the introduction of kidney transplant in the country has helped to save billions of money which could be spent in patients seeking the service(s) abroad. He said that kidney transplant performed on 56 patients in the country helped the government to save 5bn/- that could have been spent if the patients were referred abroad. Prof Museru said the cost for cost for undergoing the procedure in the country is 30m/-per patient and 120m/- if the patient was referred aboard. The Director further explained that, before kidney transplant was introduced in the country, the number of patients referred abroad in a period of 15 years reached 150, which is an average of 10 patients per year, adding that in a period of two years, MNH has served 35 per cent of all patients earlier referred abroad in the past 15 years period. Expounding, Prof Museru commended the government for its efforts in improving provision of renal service in the country, where so far it has established 32 dialysis centres in Dar es Salam, Mwanza, Mbeya, Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Dodoma and Tanga. He also applauded the State for measures being undertaken to set up renal dialysis centres in zonal referral hospitals in Arusha, Mtwara, Mara, Kigoma Iringa and Kagera with donations of dialysis equipment from Saudi Arabia government. Prof Museru noted that more than 1000 patients with chronic kidney diseases have been receiving dialysis services from various centres in the country.