RETIRED President Ali Hassan Mwinyi yesterday launched an anti-corruption crusade, targeting to reach over 16 million schoolchildren and university students across the country. The second phase Union President said any society that desired progress must nurture transparency and a corruption-free environment, failure of which there would be a vicious cycle of poverty. The new plan will be implemented by uniformed scouts. According the retired President, Tanzania has witnessed a variety of forms of corruption in the community and it’s high time members of the public joined President John Magufuli to win the endemic and systemic battle. “This form of corruption ranges from theft, bribery and many others … we all need to fight as one,” Mzee Mwinyi said. He noted that the strategy targeted schoolchildren and university students must be a springboard for everyone to win the fight. Minister of State in the President’s Office (Public Service Management and Good Governance) (rtd) Capt. George Mkuchika said on behalf of Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan that young men should serve as ambassadors in the struggle against corruption. Mr Mkuchika said corruption was a disease that depleted national resources and caused some people to lose their basic rights. “For us to have a moral society it is the responsibility of every Tanzanian to expose acts of corruption. The fight against corruption is our responsibility and we must all take part in the fight,” he said. In addition, he noted that corruption was a hindrance to economic development and, therefore, the government must take proactive measures to engage youth groups. “This strategy aims at reaching more than 16 million primary pupils and secondary school and university students. The youngsters will be trained on the fight against corruption and through them we will reach over 40 million Tanzanians,” he said. Chief Scout Mwantumu Mahiza said 16 million pupils and students would be reached within a year and that corruption must be stopped to protect the next generation.