ONLY ample preparation and seriousness of the just named players guarantee the national team, Taifa Stars to perform well in their tough Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier against Tunisia late this month. It is indeed a serious preparation that will help Taifa Stars overcome the threat of Tunisia, the toughest side and leaders of the group J if the team wants to play again in the continental-level finals. In-depth analysis of our the strength or weaknesses of our opponents can’t help us achieve the success as world rankings seem to favour Tunisians, hence we have to bank on adequate preparation to overcome Tunisian threat and other group J opponents; Libya and Equatorial Guinea. It is crystal clear that most teams that succeed must have had ample preparations and in most cases it has paid off. If we want to see Taifa Stars qualify again we should immediately start preparing a team and players and not take much time in judging our opponents by their names because in doing so it undervalues your own players psychologically. We hope presence of many the globally experienced players in the team called for both AFCON can help build well our team as the players to be picked for a mission have seen and played against players to quality world class players whose countries’ rankings are superior to our big threat Tunisia. We would also warn the players to skip the ‘fear’ of global outbreak of the coronavirus, though it is scary at the moment, and take it a as a wake-up call to the players and the management to be alert in their entire mission. The call for the early preparation also involve players as individuals since the opportunities to serve their nation are plenty, hence they must work in every match to appeal the to the head coach and the technical bench. We end up by calling the government and the football governing body (TFF) to fully commit themselves to the national team, by ensuring they get many friendly games to keep the team in good shape ahead of the Cameroon mission. Delighted and very hopeful to see our team performing well in Cameroon we would like to tell all Tanzanians to support the team and the entire AFCON mission since the success of the team is the country’s success too.