TANZANIA National Women teams coach, Bakari Shime has warned his charges to prepare for a tough game when they face Uganda again in the return leg of World Cup U-17 Qualifying match in Kampala next week. Shime told the media after his team came from a goal behind to claim a slim 2-1 victory at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday, that the Ugandan girls were well drilled to face Tanzania as they played a cautious game that didn’t offer chances to his players to dictate their usual terms in all 90 minutes of the tense match. “Let me congratulate my players for having a good game even though we had to come from behind to win the match. It was a competitive and tough match but the most important thing is a victory,” he said. He added that tactically, they had a good match than their opponents despite not using well the made chances to score goals. Furthermore, Shime described Uganda strikers as very dangerous who can score any moment provided they get a chance to do so. “It is clear that most of our players lack pace in comparison with their Ugandan counterparts. We will also work a lot on how we can improve to play dead balls,” he said . Meanwhile, Ugandan sports website Kawowo, reported how Ugandans felt about Tanzanian striker Aisha Masaka who scored both goals for her team. To Ugandans, Masaka is a famous town in central Uganda but for the Uganda U17 National team, the sound of the name came with disappointment. It said Aisha Masaka put the Uganda U17 National team to the sword with her brace guiding her team to victory. This was the first loss for the Uganda U17 side since its establishment in August last year. It was also the first time they were conceding more than one goal in a game. Fauzia Najjemba fired Uganda into an early lead before Aisha Masaka levelled matters midway through the first stanza. The latter once again appeared on the score sheet, getting the winner with three minutes left on the clock. Masaka in almost a similar manner equalized in the 28th minute with her curling effort going past goalkeeper Daphne Nyayenga. In the 85th minute, Tanzania was awarded a penalty with the referee calling for a foul on Masaka by defender Bira Nadunga. With the game destined to end in a stalemate, Masaka paid for the earlier miss, scoring the winning goal in the 87th minute to give Tanzania advantage in the tie. The two teams will meet in the return leg on 14th March 2020 in Kampala with the winner on aggregate taking on either Cameroon or Sao Tome and Principe. The 2020 FIFA U17 Women’s Cup will be hosted in India in November.