LAST week the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam convicted Chadema Chairman Freeman Mbowe and eight others of sedition, rioting and unlawful assembly and sentenced them to either pay fine totaling 350m/- or go to jail for 60 months cumulatively. The judgment attracted a mixture of feelings on whether or not justice has been done. Our Staff Writer FAUSTINE KAPAMA revisits some facts in the trial in the second part of this article which began on Tuesday. ALL accused persons denied the charges. During the trial, the prosecution was led by the Principal State Attorneys; Faraja Nchimbi, Senior State Attorneys Wankyo Simon and State Attorneys Jacqueline Nyantori and Salim Msemo, while Advocate Peter Kibatala appeared for the accused persons. As it is the principle in criminal cases, the duty of proving a case lies on the prosecution. In executing such a duty, the prosecution called eight witnesses. But in attempt to cast doubts on prosecution’s case, the defence called 15 witnesses, with accused persons inclusive. Principal Resident Magistrate Wilbard Mashauri was the first to be appointed to preside over the case before he was succeeded by Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba after being appointed a High Court Judge. Magistrate Simba heard all the witnesses from both sides. Having analyzed and going through the evidence tendered, the magistrate was satisfied that the prosecution, through the evidence tendered, proved the case beyond reasonable doubt pointing to the guilty of all accused persons in commission of 12 out of 13 counts against them. The magistrate acquitted all the accused on the offence of conspiracy for lack of evidence. He was, however, quick to point out that the other offences proved to have been committed were very serious. According to him, the words uttered by the accused persons during the then byelection campaign of Kinondoni Constituency, was aggravated submitted by the prosecution, were very serious, seditious and aimed at promoting the ill feeling of the community in general. “Considering the position the accused persons are holding in the society, we expected them to exhibit good examples in the society and follow the law, but they turned out to be the opposite. They deserve to be severely punished in order to serve a lesson not only to them but even to others,” he said. “The seditious words given by the accused at the political rally were very serious. Things could have been worse had the situation been controlled by the police. This should be a warning. We cannot allow our country to be exposed in such dangerous zone,” the magistrate further said. He rejected the line of defence given by defence witnesses, including the accused persons that the words they had given were of political nature during elections. The magistrate queried, “Hivi kusema ni bora tuwabebe wachache hata wakiwa 200 waliokufa katika ukombozi ni kampeni gani? Magistrate Simba also queried, “Kinondoni kugeuka majivu, Lisu amepigwa risasi na vyombo vya dola, Kumchinja Magufuli na vibaraka wake. Hii inamshawishi nini mpiga kura. Ni hatari sana na hatuwezi kuyaruhusu mambo haya.” Referring to past different decided cases, the magistrate pointed out that it was dangerous to allow the accused to give his own interpretation of such words of what he or she meant at the time they were given, but have to be interpreted by the court itself by their natural meaning. Having so concluded, the magistrate sentences each accused person to either pay 10m/-fine or go to jail for five months on the second, third and fourth counts. The magistrate sentenced Mbowe to pay similar fine for the fifth and sixth counts, 5m/- for each ninth and tenth count and other 10m/-for 11th count. The magistrate also sentenced Msigwa and Bulaya to pay 10m/-fine each for the 12th and 13th counts, respectively. It means Mbowe to pay 70m/-, Mdee 40m/-, Heche 40m/-, Msigwa 40m/-, Bulaya 40m/-, while Matiko, Mwalimu, Mnyika and Mashinji to pay fine of 30m/-each, thus making total of 350m/-. After delivery of the judgment, James Mbatia pointed out that a history has been recorded, but he was of the views that the punishment given to the convicts was in the high side. He pointed out that offences like of this nature require more political reconciliation rather than legal remedies. “The court has spoken, but our lawyers will guide us on how to go about the matter. Instead of creating more hatred and hostility, it is better to seek political solutions. Political reconciliations are better and more effective than legal remedies,” he said. Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Humphrey Polepole said they have been satisfied with the verdict and they believe that justice has been served.