WITH the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus continuing to spread across the globe, Tanzania’s national carrier, ATCL, has suspended international flights to and from Mumbai, India effective today. The Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) has also shelved its plans to launch direct flights from Dar es Salaam to China. In July last year, ATCL Officially re-launched direct flight from Dar es Salaam to Mumbai, thrice a week flights. The revived airline had planned to begin a charter service to China in February, this year, but the coronavirus outbreak means the wait for maiden flights to the Asian giant continues. Speaking in Dar es Salaam, ATCL Managing Director Eng Ladislaus Matindi said it was precautionary move, insisting the state-owned airline took into consideration all key issues to safeguard the safety of passengers. He made the remarks while opening the fifth session of ATCL’s Workers Council in Dar es Salaam. Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communication Atashasta Nditiye added that the coronavirus outbreak has affected the aviation sector globally saying the International Air Transport Association (IATA) projects airlines to lose about US dollars 113bn/-, which is a 19 per cent drop. Mr Nditiye, however, said the government had no plan to block any flights into the country if they took steps to prevent the spread of disease by inspecting all the places visitors enter. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), more than 100 countries have already reported laboratory-confirmed cases of the deadly virus. Following this new revelation, the global health body urged all countries to prepare for the potential arrival of disease by readying emergency response systems; increasing capacity to detect and care for patients; ensuring hospitals have the space, supplies and necessary personnel; and developing life-saving medical interventions. There have now been more than 120,000 cases worldwide, and more than 4,300 people have died. The vast majority of cases are mild, and almost half of those infected have already recovered. Meanwhile, in China, the origin of the deadly COV D-19, there is mounting evidence that strict control measures pay off. The East Asian country’s President X i Jinping has declared the disease “basically curbed,” and with only about 10 new domestic infections reported in China on Wednesday, other countries were adopting similar tactics. Meanwhile, the ATCL Managing Director mentioned the challenges facing the company such as poor infrastructure for some Airport, which now hinders ATCL to fly at night to some destinations within the country such as Kigoma, Mbeya and Dodoma. He said the government will continue to improve the aviation industry in order to achieve industrial economy. He further said it is important for every employee and the company as a whole to get positive results in order to maintain the company’s well-being and to make ATCL important in stimulating and building the industrial economy in order to achieve National industrial policy. Mr Musa Mwakalinga who was among the members said the ATCL’s staff council sessions have been a great contribution to the management and gives a chance for employees to move and increase efficiency at work.