TEN teams are lined up to colour this year’s Mapinduzi Hockey Cup Tournament that is scheduled to kick off at Lugalo Barracks ground in Dar s Salaam today and wind up on Sunday. The tournament will involve six men and four women teams, who will battle it out for top honours at the three-day event. Tanzania Hockey Association (TAHA) Secretary Kaushik Doshi told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam that everything is in place for the tournament to be staged. He expressed his happiness to have women teams in the event that serves as National Club Championship. “All necessary preparations are almost complete and six teams will be battling to take the national title of club championship in men’s category. “As for ladies, four teams will be competing in their separate event, this is a huge step forward towards the development of the game,” said Doshi. He said that men’s teams are scheduled to battle it out in two groups A and B, before two top teams in each progressed to semifinals. Pool A comprises Moshi Khalsa, Black Mamba and JKM Combine, while pool B will see Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF), Juhudi and Kibasila face against each other. Women’s team will include TPDF, Twende, Juhudi and JMK (Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete) Youth Park Combined. According to Doshi, hosts TPDF are scheduled to take on Kibasila challenge in today’s pool B opening match. Doshi added that Reliance Insurance Company Ltd and Tata Africa Holdings Ltd all of Dar es Salaam are sponsoring the tournament. THA have also appointed the coordinators of the event, who are Magani Mnonda and Alice Taabu, who will oversee the battle. “THA appreciates the support from sponsors of the tournament and also acknowledges the gesture by TPDF management for providing the Lugalo hockey field venue for this prestigious tournament,” said Doshi. He added that the tournament was initially planned to be staged in January, but due to some technical reason, which also included rains, the event could not take place and hence they decided to host in March to give all the teams’ ample time for preparations. However, the tournament will miss the defending champion Dar Khalsa and finalist Magereza who beat them in the last event back to 2018 on penalties.