It is unquestionable, the COVID-19 outbreak has managed to overthrow all existing human capabilities across the globe. It seems our only hope remains to be our Almighty God. With death-toll rising rapidly, Italy is already the world’s most affected country by the coronavirus. Indeed, the only hope remains up in the sky. From Vatican, in Italia, Pope Francis asked the Virgin Mary to “beg the lord so that he flees the world from every form of pandemic!” Our President, John Magufuli straightened the point by telling Tanzanians to keep on praying but also to “continue working to build our nation while obeying all measures given by the authority.” To be on the safe side, Tanzania announced the closure of learning institutions, banned public gatherings excluding prayer activities. The Chairman of the National Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA) Chief sheikh Abubakar Zuberi added extra announcements, such as; “the postponement of madrasas as precautionary measure against the spread of coronavirus.” Once again, religion is called upon, to rescue the situation. Whereas for a multi-religious country like Tanzania, such an assignment turns into a joyful one. We have an exemplary existence of peace and harmony between our religions. No wonder, that it was quite easy to form an Interfaith Organization under the leadership of the main National religious bodies; 1. National Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA), 2. Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC) 3, The Office of Mufti of Zanzibar, 4. Christian Council of Tanzania (CCT) At the helm of this unique civil society (Tanzania Interfaith Partnership (TIP), there is Ms SAIDA SALIM MUKHI - MSUMI. As a CEO, this Social Scientist & Journalist is the overall in charge of activities undertaken by this civil society (TIP) has imposed itself with a huge task of permanently prevailing the named historical existence of ‘peace and harmony’ in the country. Saida was born in the seventies at the KCMC, in Moshi, Kilimanjaro. “I ‘m the firstborn (followed by two younger brothers Saidi and Ally) to the late ‘Mama’ Farida Ally (a Teacher at Korogoni Primary School) and the late ‘Mzee’ Salim Mukhi (an Accountant at the Tanzania Bag Corporation).” Muungano Primary School (in Moshi) was Saida’s first encounter with education. Just a year before her graduation, a by then ‘typical corruption incidents’ witnessed by the young Saida at Mawenzi Hospital, made her to dream of becoming a Journalist, “I just wanted to report and abolish injustices done to the poor within our society.” For her O-level between 1987 - 1990, Saida was at Mawenzi Secondary School (in Moshi) and finalized her A-level at Zanaki High School (in Dar-es-Salaam). “We are the last batch to undergo through the compulsory National Service (JKT), Our intake got the name ‘Operation Miezi 6’ and we went through it at Makutupora - Dodoma. A truly memorable period that made us love our country even more.” Soon after completing her military services, in 1994, Saida went on to undertake a 2 years Diploma course of her dream profession at the Tanzania School of Journalism (TSJ). “Between 1996 and 2006 I was employed (as Radio and TV News Reporter and Programs Moderator/producer) at the Africa Media Group Company Ltd.” In between, Saida accumulated her certificates by attending several short courses on Journalism including the Nordic-SADC Journalism (NSJ). “I also attended an International Broad-cast Journalism & Internet at the Radio Netherland Training Centre, in Holland.” Thereafter, between 2006 - 2011, Saida was employed as the Trainings and Communications Coordinator at the Balm In Gilead Tanzania. “Here too, I continued attending more short courses.” Saida also holds a certificate in Project Planning and Management. A 2020 - certificate in Directorship Course, but also attended a training workshop on Gender and International Gender Network- 2000, among many. Between 2009 – 2012 She pursued Bachelors of Arts in Development studies at the KIU (Kampala International University), in Dar. A year later (2012 – 2014), Saida continued with her studies (M.A. in Public Health Leadership) at the Uganda Christian University (UCU) in Mukono, Uganda. Since 2011 until to date, Saida is faithfully fulfilling her assigned responsibilities at the Tanzania Interfaith Partnership (TIP). Last year, TIP organized a grand meeting of faith leaders on Corona and Ebola preparedness. “Access to Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) is among our main advocacy.” Says Ms Msumi. “Beginning from houses of worship and beyond, the time WASH ‘ll be no longer a problem to the lives of all people in the country.” What a coincidence with the current world-wide pandemic of Coronavirus! Nevertheless, with such a smart, calm and cool minded lady like Ms SAIDA SALIM MUKHI – MSUMI at the helm of advocacy, we are assured of being on the safe side. By the way, at home too, Saida is tuned to her husband of over two decades, Mr Hamisi Msumi (a Cross Cultural Psychologist), the couple is blessed with three children (Farida, Khadija and Hawa). The lady is a true role model and worthy to be illustrated. ● David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director producer based in Dar es Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com www. matatizomedia.com