ALL is going well for Tanzanian basketball youthful star Atiki Ally, after he earned a unanimous National Preparatory Association (NPA) first team All-Star selection in Canada this week. According to reports from Canada, Ally was dominant all season and had averaged 17 points per game. He has already started to catch the eyes of top teams. The NPA is a transparent, inclusive league designed to provide structure within amateur Canadian basketball at an elite level, while building culture of the game across the country. The NPA is evolving Canadian basketball, providing student-athletes an opportunity to play high level hoops on home soil, with an emphasis on development on and off the floor, accompanied with the highest form of exposure through North Pole Hoops (live broadcasting, scouting and media coverage). Ally, who emerged from Jakaya M Kikwete (JMK) Youth Park of Dar es Salaam, has already impressed since joining the London Basketball Academy located in Ontario, Canada after securing a scholarship in 2017. JMK Youth Park basketball coach Bahati Mgunda told the ‘Sunday News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that they are happy that Ally’s progress impresses many. “To earn the unanimous All Stars first team call is a tremendous achievement for him,” Mgunda said. Mgunda added: “What I can say is that Ally is doing really well, all we need is to pray for him so that he keeps ascending to the top. He still has a year ahead of him before he completes high school before joining college from where, he can earn a pick from the top teams.” Ally secured a scholarship to study and pursue a career in basketball after impressing during a scouting training held in Dar es Salaam in August 2017. Juco Advocate scouts came for a sports tour after being invited by the then national team coach American Matthew McAllister. The youngster landed a scholarship to play and study at Themes Valley District School Board in Canada. And, Mgunda who is also a former national team member has been closely following Ally’s progress as he is one of JMK Park products. Mgunda added that Ally is setting a good example to other talented youths in the country, who have ambitions to follow his success. Ally’s basketball journey started in Mwanza way back in 2015, at Nyanza Primary School, where he demonstrated all the attributes that would help him to succeed before he shifted to Dar es Salaam.