WOMEN in Ilala District, Dar es Salaam Region have secured a 2.8bn/- loan to improve their businesses in their localities, thanks to the government initiatives that aim at emancipating the group from poverty. Addressing women at Mahita grounds in Kipunguni ward ahead of Women’s Day, the Ilala Municipality Head of Social Welfare and Youth, Ms Francisca Makoye said the strategy to empower women, youth and people living with disability has improved lives of marginalised people and are able to engage in various economic activities. Detailing more over the loans, the welfare officer said that apart from provided cash, requests of various groups from wards namely; Zingiziwa (72m/-), Kitunda (91m/- ), Kipunguni (102m/-) and Majohe (68m/-) were still pending though she asked the beneficiaries to remain patient saying the government was working on their requests. At the event heralded by the theme ‘Generation Equality for Now and Future Tanzania’s Development’, Ms Francisca said, generally, there are 782 groups in the district that need a total of 4.8bn/-. Among projects that have been funded by loans from the local government in Ilala are agriculture, poultry and hand made products including soaps. “Women should not be upset by the delay of loans from government….you are supposed to maintain your current small businesses as you are waiting for loans,” she assured women gathered at Mahita grounds. Meanwhile, Programme officer for mobilisation and outreach at TGNP Mtandao, Mr Deogratius Temba congratulated Ilala District for implementing the empowerment programme whereby, women are now engaging in various economic activities to improve family economy. However, the activist said that since women are engaging in various economic activities, they have to be assured of their safety since some are being harassed, confiscated their money or not been paid for the service they rendered. He called upon women to report sexual harassments may affect their businesses hence they will be not in the position to pay back loans they secured from their respective local governments. Village Community Bank (VICOBA), the Microfinance Lending Facility for Women Empowerment founder Devotha Likokola thanked President Magufuli for continue to trust women in his leadership as well as empowering them economically. Reflecting 25 years since Beijing Conference was held, the former MP told women that they should not wait for someone to initiate development programme for them instead to initiate themselves while proposing “you should group yourselves” since unit is power. In order to empower women, youth and people with disabilities (PWDs,) the Ilala Municipal council has allocated 10percent of its budget revenues, which is given to vulnerable groups as interest-free loans. Out of 10 percent, four per cent is specifically allocated to women while the remaining part is for youth and people living with disabilities.