NATIONAL Under-17 women football team will be targeting to finish off hosts Uganda as they face off for the second leg of the Women’s World Cup Under-17 qualifiers at the Star-Times Stadium in Lugogo, Kampala today. Tanzania head into the game with 2-1 win advantage registered in the first leg clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam about two weeks ago. The aggregate winner will advance to the last stage of FIFA Women World Cup qualification and will face winner of the match between Cameroon and Sao Tome. The Women’s World Cup Under-17 will be staged in India from November 2nd to 21st this year. The team arrived in Kampala early yesterday, with players and technical bench brimming with confidence that they will come out victorious today and sail through to the next stage of the qualifiers. Speaking yesterday, Head Coach, Bakari Shime predicted a tough encounter but remained confident that his players will leave to his expectation after days of tough drills. “We will protect our lead but at the same time look to extend the margin and make the mountain high for them to climb,” Shime said. “Uganda is among the best teams in our zone but we are well prepared. All our players are healthy and fine for Saturday (today) game. We have been training hard since our first leg game with an expectation to win away,” he said. “It will not be an easy game for us; it will surely be tough as our opponents are quite good. We played against them several times and this means we know each other quite well,” he said. Skipper Irene Kisisa said they will go for a win basing on the kind of drills they have undergone. “There is nothing good than to write our names in the history books by helping our team to qualify into the World Cup for the first time and with this in mind, we will fight our lungs out tomorrow (today),” Irene said. “I am humbled to be part of the squad called to serve my nation. We have trained well to face our opponent and ready for the game tomorrow (today). We are aware of how good our opponents are but we are better than them,” Rahabu Joshua. To support the national team, the Tanzania Football Foundation (TFF) arranged transport for fans to Uganda. “We trust our girls that they are going to make us proud, to support them we have sent women football fans to Uganda by bus so as they can join all Tanzanians living in Uganda in cheering the team,” said the TFF General Secretary, Kidao Wilfred. “We know how big the game will be that is why we have fully gathered our strength to ensure that our girls return home with a win,” he added. In the first leg match, Aisha Masaka scored a brace while Fauzia Najjemba scored the only goal for Uganda. Cameroon won 4-0 over Sao Tome in a first leg and made a positive start to their qualification campaign.