THE Network of Community Media in Tanzania (TADIO) has been called upon to establish an exchange programme that will see local radio journalists from one station visit their counterparts to learn best practices from one another. Mr Amani Shayo, a facilitator from Empower Limited, made the call in Bagamoyo on Friday at a capacity building session on communication and visibility organised by Unesco for TADIO secretariat staff and board members. He called upon TADIO to encourage its member radio stations to learn from one another, saying doing so would act as a situational analysis to know the best radios in terms of programming. According to Mr Shayo, a training syndrome can never take any organisation forward, but rather capacity building as it means, training, mentorship and coaching. “I am a very big fan of impact and it is not just for the organisation, but you as a person. You have found TADIO and there were people in your situation before who did something, but you need to play your part by doing something to move the network forward. You cannot solve everything, but you can do something as your future generation will come and want to see what you did,” stressed Mr Shayo. Commenting on the session, Mr Prosper Kwigize, TADIO Board Chairperson said capacity building in communication and visibility was very important as it did touch TADIO, an entity with a big direction touching the media fraternity, ownership and community services. “Airing development information requires a person with vision to know what development is and the target. The session on communication strategy is key, as you can never prepare good programmes on development without communication,” said Mr Kwigize. For her part, Ms Irene Makene, TADIO Coordinator thanked Unesco for the session, saying being a leader was not an easy thing, as one needed requisite skills. TADIO Board Member Ally Mbarouk noted that the capacity building session was performance based, saying he had realised that most people went to work without purpose, while as in principle one ought to ensure they worked to achieve their objectives. Unesco with technical support from Empower Limited organised a five-day capacity building session to support individual members of TADIO leadership to become the best version of themselves whilst also advancing the culture and strategic focus of the organisation. In Tanzania, Unesco through funding from the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) supports 25 community radios and TADIO, a network with 34 members, (33 community radios stations as well as Pemba Press Club). The support is meant to ensure Tanzanians, especially the poor, women and girls, have the capacity to make informed decisions on issues that affect their daily lives based on access to relevant, culturally appropriate, gender-responsive accurate information and knowledge.