IN response to special request from our esteemed readers of the ‘Daily News’, this article was prepared with great attention different factors including effects of global warming in Tanzania and the current high rainfalls which is creating chaos in different parts of this country. At the same time, scientists and historians tell us between 360 and 260 million years ago, there was an ice blanket covering an area from Uganda to South Africa. Today due to global warming, 99 percent of the ice sheet has been wiped out from this area where few spots are still found in high peaks such as Ruwenzori range of mountains, Mount Kenya and Mount Kilimanjaro. While standing at 5,109 meters above sea level, the highest peaks of Ruwenzori mountains are covered by ice throughout the year but Mount Kenya that stands 5,188 meters above sea level has 11 peaks which are covered by ice. Being the highest mountain in Africa, mount Kilimanjaro has lost 85 percent of its ice cover between October 1912 and June 2011, with coverage decreasing from 11.40 square kilometers to 1.76 square kilometers. The above claims are adding pressure to ecologists because for some years there have been a lot of people talking of the diminishing ice cover on top of Mount Kilimanjaro. On the other hand, scientists and politicians from their own view have managed to put forward many suggestions to control global warming and its effects, but all in all nothing notable has been done to change the situation. History shows that for many years, for many years Kilimanjaro has been a center of attraction for many people from all over the World. In one of his book Mr Dundas who was a colonial officer in Kilimanjaro said that from 1840 some Europeans tried to climb the mountain but they failed. According to his accounts, many Europeans and Arabs were attracted by the beauty of the mountain because at that time on a clear day it was possible to see the glittering ice cover on top of Kibo from many parts of Tanga and Mombasa. Today with popularity of the Mount Kilimanjaro on the rise, it is estimated that every year more than 35,000 this is because attempt with rate of successes to the peak stand between 45 and 65 percent. History tells us in 1848 two explorers from Germany Mr John Rebman and his companion Luidwig Krapf were the first European to see the mountain, this happened when they were searching for the source of the Pangani River for about two years. While the event which involved the two explorer happened more than 150 years ago, recently as I was in a Daladala en route to Kialya in Machame, a group of European youths boarded the same bus with me, while on the way to Machame many people tried to talk with them but they kept on talking to themselves in their vernacular which I assumed to be Germany. To our surprise, when the bus reached Mailisita area where there is very good visibility of the mountain the group stopped talking and one of them asked me, is that Mount Kilimanjaro? When I said yes my mouth triggered a scramble from the young Germans who wanted to get a glimpse of one of the most beautiful land mark on the Earth, mount Kilimanjaro of Tanzania. This happened as every one of them tried to get a good picture of the mountain regardless of the risk of leaning out of a speeding Daladala. With this in mind, one may ask what will happen if one day we all wakeup and find out that Mount Kilimanjaro has no ice cover on its peak? Will tourists continue to come to see and climb the mountain? If the answer is no, if their number is going to decrease, what will happen to many people who are involved in the tourist industry in Kilimanjaro and Arusha? This includes tour operators, hotel owners, shopkeepers, drivers, guides and potters, if we accept it or not the impact of ice loss on Mountain Kilimanjaro will be very bad on our side in one way or another. As the current drought hitting different parts of East Africa and you happen to travel on a bus from Arusha to Marangu or Rombo, from the window you will clearly see a shrinking ice cover on top of Kilimanjaro. On the other hand some scientists believe that there is a great possibility of reducing or stopping this disaster from happening. In a search for this answer my brain came out with the followings, taking an example of Kiwalani area in Dar es Salaam where the amount of rainfall is higher than the rest of the city, water vapors from the sea are pushed inland by winds. Then these clouds which contain water vapors are stopped by Pugu Hills and other small mountain in Kisarawe then they bounced back and heated by sun rays to form rainfalls on areas like Kiwalani, Kipunguni and Gongolamboto. This is done naturally without intervention, but on the other hand, the same formula can be applied artificially in an area around Mount Kilimanjaro. It is possible because during rainy season millions of liters of water are poured into the Indian Ocean from Arusha, Manyara, Tanga and Kilimanjaro regions leaving most low laying areas struggling to cope with the harsh situation of dry season. Farmers lose most of their harvests, pastoralists become poor as their livestock die for hunger while inside national parks wild animals die due to lack of water in streams and rivers. This happen in the northern and other parts of the country because most of the seasonal rivers become dry after a long dry season. While the lack of rain is a catastrophe, it is known that during rainy season all rivers are full of water with some of them overflowing their banks. We can do one good thing to the nation and ourselves by harvesting rain water from the family, village, districts up to regional levels. This can be done by digging water reservoir in our house, primary schools, secondary schools, colleges and hospitals. Village and district may set up a large network of small dams in lower areas which together will form a huge water reservoir system. This will cause tremendous changes on the weather of Kilimanjaro Region by increasing the amount of rainfall in the area and increase ice on top of Kibo and creating ice on Mawenzi peak. This will happen because the sun will heat and evaporate some amount of water from these artificial water bodies into the sky. Dry winds from the Indian Ocean will push the water vapors to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro where they will be blocked from going on to another side and returned to the opposite direction where it will be condensed and turned into rain which will obvious fall in our area. Not only that, while on top of Kibo and Mawenzi, some amount of water vapor will create a cooling condition for creation of more ice on the highest mountain in Africa. Mount Kilimanjaro stands inside Mount Kilimanjaro national park where different animals such as elephants, leopards, monkeys, elands, serval cats and other dwell. The presence of ice on top of mount Kilimanjaro contribute positively to the life of animals inside national parks such Mkomazi where rivers and streams come from the highlands. It’s possible let us play our part! rstanslaus@yahoo.com