TANZANIAN students studying in China have resumed classes via e-learning after being quarantined following the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has revealed. China has opened the learning process for its Universities through e-learning as it battles to contain further spread of the virus. Mr Majaliwa disclosed that at the 38th Graduation Ceremony of the Open University of Tanzania (OUT) held at Ilulu Grounds in Lindi, on Thursday. “Such reveals the level to which technology has advanced giving room for lecturers to continue facilitating training online to their students, wherever they located. “For this case, ICT has enabled quarantined students in China to continue with studies wherever they are,” added the Premier. However, he counseled the graduates to demonstrate high efficiency and productivity to ensure good grades in their certificates. He urged them to use the knowledge they are acquiring to make a difference in inspiring change for Tanzania’s development. Mr Majaliwa noted that the government considers their studies to be strategic for the development of the country, thus keenly making a follow up. “Besides the many challenges, the University has continued to spread its wings within and outside the country... these are remarkable achievements. “We acknowledge the contribution made by the founders of this country and for seeing the need to establish the University,” he noted. According to him, the late Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere has a strong vision seeing into that adults have access to higher learning education as they carry on with their work. “The university will only demonstrate its meaning if it contributes to the development of the country. “For many years now OUT has been in the forefront in producing a big number of experts in the various sectors, who have contributed greatly to the development of the country,” said the PM. He further urged OUT and the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) to extend the enrollment window for the institution to have more foundation courses, instead of the only one available in preparing students to pursue degree programmes. “The outcome of the programme will further boost the participation of many Tanzanians to enroll into higher learning,” said Mr Majaliwa. A total of 698 graduates were issued with certificates including doctoral (20), master (185), and bachelor degree (344) and 166 being for diploma and certificate levels.