THE Parliament will today host top religious leaders among other delegates against HIV/Aids stigma at a meeting to be officiated by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. Speaking to reporters yesterday, Chairman of HIV, Tuberculosis and Narcotics Committee, Oscar Mukasa said the aim was to give a platform for religious leaders to help end stigma. He said the meeting to be hosted by National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai intended to engage religious leaders as they were instrumental in ending HIV/Aids stigma in society in which the majority of people were worshippers in one of the denominations. Mr Mukasa said in their engagement with the National Council of People Living with HIV/Aids in Tanzania (Nacopha) it was clear that if stigma was not well-addressed the 95– 95– 95 target won’t be attained by 2025. He said the country’s target of knowing HIV/Aids status was at 62 per cent. Mr Mukasa stressed the importance of engaging civil society and working with government institutions and the private sector to ensure the needs of people at high risk of HIV/ Aids infection and people living with HIV/Aids were reflected in HIV/Aids programmes. He said stigma was among the hindrances to reach the target and they were keen on what would be public reaction if one was found living with HIV/Aids. Mr Mukasa said they intended to reach an agreement with religious leaders on how they would support the government to end HIV/Aids and TB stigma, taking into account their influential position. Earlier, Nacopha Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Deogratius Rutwatwa thanked USAID for supporting the event and expressed optimism that religious leaders, who had a wide range of followers, were the right people to deal with stigma. He said stigma was not only from members of the public, but also patients for fear of being known, one would choose to collect an ARV dose from a centre that was far from his/her place. Mr Rutwatwa said they believed by fighting stigma they would be able to reach zero new infection of HIV/ Aids by 2030.