NATIONAL Under-17 women football team has stepped up preparations for the second leg of the Women’s World Cup Under-17 qualifiers against Uganda. The team will travel to Uganda this Friday for the game to be staged at Star- Times Stadium, Lugogo in Kampala, Uganda on Saturday. Tanzania head into the game with 2-1 win advantage registered in the first leg clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam about two weeks ago. The aggregate winner will advance to the last stage of FIFA Women World Cup qualification and will face winner of the match between Cameroon and Sao Tome. The Women’s World Cup Under-17 will be staged in India from November 2nd to 21st this year. Despite predicting a tough encounter, Head Coach, Bakari Shime is confident that his players will leave to his expectation after days of tough drills. “Uganda is among the best teams in our zone but we are well prepared. All our players are healthy and fine for Saturday game. We have been training hard since our first leg game with an expectation to win away,” he said. “It will not be an easy game for us; it will surely be tough as our opponents are quite good. We played against them several times and this means we know each other quite well,” he said. In the first leg match, Aisha Masaka scored a brace while Fauzia Najjemba scored the only goal for Uganda. Cameroon won 4-0 over Sao Tome in a first leg and made a positive start to their qualification campaign. Meanwhile, the Ugandan Head Coach, Ayub Kiyingi has praised his team attitude as nothing less than perfect and signals to great things while the President of Federation of Uganda Football Associations (FUFA), Engineer Moses Magogo promising to pay 200 US dollars to each player of Uganda U17 team if they eliminate Tanzania. “We really have a lot of hope in this team and losing out will be an opportunity lost. What you could be missing is just mental toughness and you will need just that on Saturday. They (Tanzania) may be a good side but I believe you are better,” said FUFA President to his players.