NMB bank yesterday donated several Hospital beds and School equipment to some institutions in its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), terming it a plough back accrued one percent profit it takes back to the society. In Dar es Salaam, the bank through its City’s Zone Manager, Badru Idd donated 80 beds to Tambaza Secondary School valued at 10m/-to minimize bed shortages at the institution’s girls’ dormitories and received on their behalf by the Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office responsible for Union matters and the Environment, Mussa Zungu. In response the Minister, who is also area Member of Parliament, acknowledged the bank’s support towards enhancing government’s efforts to improve education sector as a stakeholder. He said the bank’s assistance in its CSR that covers also health helps a lot the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli to serve the citizens. On his part, NMB Dar es Salaam Zone Manager, Mr Idd thanked the school’s management for accepting their alms, saying assisting the institution that is one of the oldest in the country, shows how they are strategized to address challenges in the community. In the same city, one of the NMB Senior Manager, Adelard Mang’ombo donated medical equipment valued 5m/-to Pugu Kajiungeni Health Centre and received by Ilala District Commissioner (DC), Sofia Mjema. While presenting items, Mr Mang’ombo noted that they decided to help in health sector, because it is the basis of any development in the community. “NMB bank understands the government’s efforts in offering free education both in Primary and Secondary Schools, but without good health, it becomes another case that is why we also support in the sector as stakeholders,” he added. While in Kilimanjaro Region, the bank through its Northern Zone Manager, Aikansia Muro, issued five beds, and two more for expectant mothers for deliveries and 25 bedsheets, five mattresses as well as a cheque of 16m/-to assist vanilla farmers in the area. Handing over the items, Ms Muro, in company of NMB Hai Branch Manager, Medard Malisa, handed over the medical equipment to Hai Deputy District Commissioner (DC), Agnes Hokororo, at a ceremony attended by the area Council Director, Yohana Sintoo. Commenting, the School’s Board of Management, Dr Amos Mwakilasa said the bank’s assistance would minimise shortage of beds; The girl child has been facing at the institution with a population of 760 students.