SIMBA SC Head Coach, Sven Vandenbroeck admitted they have a tough week to conquer as they expect to face league giants Azam FC and their traditional rivals Young Africans respectively. The defending champions face Azam FC tomorrow at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam before taking on Yanga on Sunday at the same venue with high hopes to haul six points. Their 2-0 triumph over KMC on Sunday enabled the reigning champions to reap 65 points and remain firm at the driving seat after playing 25 matches, winning 21 games, losing 2 and drawing other 2 encounters in the process. They have since scored 52 goals and conceded 12. Speaking after demolishing KMC, Vandenbroeck said they had to do one job to win against the Kinondoni based club saying they have a tough week in front of them to overcome. “We had a good ball possession, created four to five scoring chances in the first half but unfortunately we could not score. The time was going fast for us but in the end, we succeeded to score two goals,” he said. Adding, the Belgian trainer pointed out that the passing spirit in the first half was not high enough for his team thereby allowing KMC to hold them until the second half. “We need to recover to be ready for the two big games coming up on Wednesday and Sunday while insisting that everyone in his squad is in the top form to compete,” he said. On his part, KMC coach Haruna Harerimana said their plans now is to fight hard to remain in the league next season. “We lost the game because my players failed to respect the tactical problems we amended at the halftime,” he said. KMC are 19th on the table with 21 points, nine points above bottom placed Singida United who have 12 points after 25 outings. Meanwhile, Yasinta Amos reports that Simba SC spokesperson, Haji Manara has opened his club’s new branch at Usa- River, Arusha over the weekend. Hundreds of Simba SC supporters flocked at the inauguration event held in the Engaresero Ward of Usa-River, in Arumeru District where Manara held talks with the team supporters and fans. In addition to planting a Simba branch at Usa-River, Manara also used the opportunity to supply books for religious studies in all schools within Arumeru. “The books will both be for Islam and Christian teachers and pupils or students in the vast district.” The books will be supplied in all primary and secondary schools of Arumeru, as well as churches and Madrasas around the precinct. He explained that, a well-placed Catholic bishop will assist him in this endeavour. The Chairman of the newly launched Simba Sports Club, Branch at Usa-River, Humphrey Msuya said the Ngaresero branch has nearly 75 members, for starters and that it will soon grow to become one of the largest yet.