THE International Labor Organisation (ILO) has challenged member states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to ensure every decision they make has clear agreed timeframe of implementation. ILO further recommended that the member states needed to revisit the function of the sector to determine if they were fit for the purpose. These were among recommendations given by ILO Director of the Decent Work Team for Southern Africa, Dr Joni Musabayana. He further mentioned the importance of SADC protocol on employment and labor for enabling the sector make strides. He was speaking during the opening ceremony of an annual joint meeting of Labor and Employment ministries from the SADC countries. Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan graced the opening session of the meeting in Dar es Salaam. Dr Musabayana pointed out that the meeting was an opportunity to take stock of what they have achieved in the sector and to reflect what has worked well and what has not worked well. On her part, Ms Zingiswa Losi, president of the Southern Africa Trade Union Coordinating Council, stated: “Our region is currently undergoing a crisis and deepening contradiction ever seen in history.” She complained that Member States have become rigorous and missed the opportunity to deal decisively with the depressing state that people were facing. “Workers in the region have lost faith in us,” she stated while banking on the meeting to come up with solutions on challenges facing workers in the region. “The more we meet and agree on new protocols, we also meet and set things to happen,” she said. Speaking earlier, Chairman of SADC Private Sector Forum (SPSF), Dr Aggrey Mulimuka, told delegates that the issues of skills mismatch was a major challenge employers face in the region. He particularly attributed it to technological advancement in the job market; A situation which in most cases it becomes hard to find the right people for the jobs. The World Economic Forum estimates that 15 to 20 million young people will join the African workforce every year for the next two decades. By 2030, Africa will be home to more than a quarter of the world’s population under 25, who will make up 60 per cent of the continent’s total population.