IT happened last week that social media, especially Tanzanians on Twitter (ToT), was at it again. It was awash with debate on the whether youth are right to be told, ‘not to wait to be employed, employ yourselves!’. The above statement in quote is paraphrased from a statement given by a certain well known, prominent person in Tanzania. And for the sake of objectivity of this article we shall hide his name and use a pen name ‘The person’. Founded in 2006 in America, got prominence in 2010 here Tanzania, Twitter has a reputation of attracting users who are mainly the elites. And like many other social networks, Twitter is a safe haven for youths who are slowly shunning mainstream media, to air their views. Being in information age where people are now used to bombardment of information and social media that requires no one’s background in journalism, has virtually made everyone a scribe who can report, edit and disseminate to a certain audience a package of information. So last week was anotherweek that a debate exploded by a controversial ‘The person’ who brought up the matter on table in a prescriptive manner. ToT who are mainly youth, were not amused by it, especially when that statement comes from a person holding political position. Their claim which held tight water, literally meant ‘please lead us by example’. Now this reminded me on the whole question of youth participation in agriculture. The number of Tanzanians employed in agriculture is a staggering 35 million, largely adult women who are in rural areas. As per Tanzanian 2007 youth policy, the youth category is people who are in the age cohort of 15 to 35 years. And according to population and housing census report, at least 77 per cent of area under the age of 35. Youth have a preference for living in urban areas and are shunning away from agriculture. And even those living in rural areas are more after off– farm activities which appears to give instant and predictable returns. So many debates have tried to find out an answer this. Since it is not a Tanzanian problem per se, other African countries have tried to do the same. Surprisingly, all their conclusive answer have been ‘let’s start making agriculture attractive to youth’. By attractive, they largely mean, society has to start doing away with stigma to those involved in farming, and that to farm should not be an activity not to sweat on. Firstly, while the assertion is correct, it is highly misleading. In the sense, seat down and wait for the society to change their mindsets before youth are moved in to it. Secondly, this conclusion seems not to have studied the youth well. Youth do not need an ideal environment to pursue their dreams, they only need to be assured with profitability of the venture. So many young Tanzanians are risking their lives in Geita, Mirerani or Nyamongo, not because an environment is ideal or because their parents are so happy with, but because they are sure of the return with their efforts period. They know for sure, that however much time-they spend in the perilous mines, they are guaranteed of making some good money after they get the gems. Take an example of what happened to Pigeon peas subsector just four years ago before quantitative restrictions were imposed by India. At that time, a kilo of the crop could trade up to Tshs. 4,000 a kilo, comparing to the current price that swings at around Tshs. 1,000. That price really attracted so many youth in to farming and trading. But no one wants to get in to it today. What has drastically changed? Profitability. Nothing more. If an interest is to revive agriculture sector and make it attractive to young people in this country, then we got to do a ‘tough job’ of restructuring marketing system of our commodities. Whether it is domestic or foreign market, something serious have to be done. Startling reality. Tanzania is a leading producer of dry beans in Africa, followed by Uganda and Kenya. However, when it comes to exports, our neighbours steals the show by leading the pack. According to International Trade Center’s exports statistics, Africa is led by Uganda, followed by Madagascar, South Africa, Morocco, Kenya and Botswana. This led me into doing kind of survey to some of the companies in Uganda to get the secret behind. One of them revealed to me that much of beans they export actually comes from Tanzania. The reason as to why they export from Uganda instead of Dar Es Salaam port was that, taxation system in Uganda favoured them more than Tanzania’s. “So what we do is that, we send our Ugandan middlemen to Tanzania, who helps collect beans and transport to Uganda before we pack them for exporting overseas”, revealed one of them. How many jobs for youth are leaking through this? That should be our homework.