THE Tanzania Coffee Research Institute (TaCRI) has made an extra step in efforts to improve coffee production by supporting agricultural extension officers assigned to work in coffee producing areas. This was said at the weekend by one of TaCRI senior officials, Dr Jeremiah Magesa, when briefing the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Gerald Kusaya, when the latter toured TaCRI offices in Lyamungu. “Extension officers have a big role to play as far as coffee production is concerned and that’s why we support them in their daily activities, including providing them with motorcycles to facilitate their work,” he said, adding that if empowered, extension officers would play a big role in improving coffee production. He noted that to increase coffee production, TaCRI also worked with 68 local government authorities in the country, as well as 300 groups related to coffee production, Agricultural Marketing Cooperative Societies (Amcos) and other development partners in the coffee value chain. “In collaboration with these partners in the coffee value chain, TaCRI management continues embarking on different creative measures which will facilitate the production of the projected 200 million coffee seedlings in 10 years,” he said. Mr Kusaya noted that the government through the Ministry of Agriculture would continue cooperating with TaCRI to ensure the institution’s objectives were achieved. “The government is working around the clock to ensure coffee production increases due to the fact that it is one of the crops which earn the country foreign income. To achieve this end, we (the government) will work closely with TaCRI whose operations are the main base as far as coffee production in the country is concerned,” he said. It is a misconception, he noted, that coffee would not regain its past glory, urging leaders at all levels to continue mobilising farmers to continue cultivating coffee using the new types of seedlings produced by TaCRI, which he said reduced coffee production costs. TaCRI Chief Executive Director, Dr Deusdedit Kilambo, said the institution continued mobilising farmers to use new varieties of coffee seedlings produced by the institution which he said would increase coffee farmers’ incomes compared to old varieties. “In light of this, TaCRI expects to release droughtresistant coffee seeds in the 2020/21 crop season and this will help increase coffee production and farmers’ incomes even if the drought situation persists due to the fact that the varieties are drought resistant,” he stressed.