THERE are signs that coronavirus fears are starting to have an impact on Dar es Salaam conferences— even though no single contagion has been reported. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, announced on Friday the planned water scientific conference that would be held parallel to mark Water Week “will be limited to local scientists and researchers.” The conference, the second in a row to be held in Dar es Salaam next Tuesday, will be focusing on water and climate change in “ensuring water security for all.” It is planned to be graced by Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, according to the PS. At least 400 delegates have confirmed to attend Water Week, which this year will witness a series of events, including Maji (Water) Week Scientific Conference scheduled for March 17-18, Joint Water Sector Review scheduled for March 19 and Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (Ewura) Day scheduled for March 20-21. The PS said the scientific conference was expected to produce scientific answers to the water sector in the country. “One of the areas includes the question of utilities’ overcharge for unused water,” he said. “Water utilities are also responsible for ensuring efficiency in water supply to customers.” The reason behind the Water Week session is to engage members of the public and stakeholders in sustainable use of water resources by reviewing challenges and looking for best possible solutions. Prof Mkumbo said Water Week was expected to involve an exhibition and the Minister for Water would launch a number of water projects across the country. Specifically, he said Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa would be the guest of honour when the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (Ewura) would be presented a performance report on water utilities in 2019/20. “I want to call upon members of the public to protect the environment to sustain water supply for all,” he said. He added that this year’s conference would also feature 15 development partners to review a new funding mechanism to improve water supply and sanitation across the country. Early this week, ministers responsible for health in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) resolved to temporarily suspend a faceto- face conference following global concern over the spread of the pandemic coronavirus. The ministers have, instead, recommended that SADC meetings should be held via teleconferences or video conferences, being measures to contain the spread of the disease.