LIKUYU villagers in Namtumbo District of Ruvuma Region have been irked by delays in compensating their homes set for demolition to pave the way for Mkuju river uranium project. The villagers complain that evaluation exercise, which went simultaneously with demolition mark paintings on their houses, took place in 2014, but nothing has been done so far. Speaking on behalf of other villagers, Mr Aliko Mpepo said the villagers are at the crossroad because the authorities ordered them to stop developing their residences. “As results, our houses have dilapidated and some are about to fall down especially in this time of downpours. But we also see nothing on progress at the mining site since then, the situation that signifies that the investor might be no longer interested to get in the business; hence, dwellers should be allowed to develop their plots,” he said. He opined the mining site to be returned back to Nyerere National Park, and let the government continue earning income through tourism sector. “We are aware that the mining area is part of such a national park, but the government earns nothing from it. Hence, it is better to be taken back to the tourism sector until new investor is available,” he stressed. Reached for comments, Chairperson for Namtumbo Town Council, Mr Dan Nyambo admitted for delay of the project, saying Uranium One Company, which won the tender for the minerals processing has not yet been in place due to the fall of uranium price in the world market. He urged the villagers to be patient, affirming that there was a possibility for the investor to be in place from middle of this year. The Chairperson said that apart from the compensations, Likuyu villagers have many to benefit from the project, including social services through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), on top of both permanent and short-term employments, among other benefits. “I’m certain that the contract directs the investor to have been setting aside one per cent of his/her turnover as CSR. The amount should be submitted to the Council and let villagers decide in which kind of social services the amount should be allocated….be it schools, health facilities, road infrastructures……” he said. The Chairperson revealed further that the contract also directs that 60 per cent of the project manpower (both skilled and unskilled) should be locals, stressing: “Hence, people should be patient as this fifth phase government prepares good and important things for them. I’m also certain that the investor should contribute 0.3 per cent of the turnover as service levy. The collected funds will be directed to various development projects, for betterment of Namtumbo residents.”