SELF-CONFIDENCE plays a major role towards attaining success in whatever you are intending to do. “Wewe jiamini, utaweza tu!” Those are among encouraging words we always hear since childhood. Indeed, we know that those with self-confidence are admired and also inspire confidence in others. Just within our society, among talented, unique individuals with self-confidence and ability to create, produce and turn an imaginative idea into reality is none other than Ms KHADIJA SAID SAAD MWANAMBOKA our renown fashion designer, entrepreneur and philanthropist. “My blessings because I learned from a tender age that there are ‘no limits’ to one’s achievements and aspirations.” Khadija’s breakthrough in her beloved field of ‘fashion design’ could be termed as at the tender age of 18, while still attending ‘Shabaan Robert Secondary School’ in Upanga area, Dar-es-Salaam. “I requested some of my school mates and friends to support the idea of showcasing my first ever collection through a fashion show and a music concert. It turned out to be the beginning of my career.” From then onwards, Khadija Mwanamboka’s name started to excel and spread across all nearby streets, communities, regions and later country-wide. Since 1996 Khadija has been yearly organizing at least one special/big fashion show Such as; (a) The Night of Style & Dance - Diamond Jubilee Hall (1996). (b) Mama Africa Fashion show - Diamond Jubilee Hall (1998) (c) ‘Boombastic’ Fashion Show – Kilimanjaro Hotel (1999) (d) Fashion Extravaganza 1999 – Kilimanjaro Hotel Up to; last year’s Tanzania RED RIBBON Fashion Gala and The Ambassador of SHIVYAWATA – women with Disability. This natural talented and power-lady Khadija was born on the 15th of Dec. 1977 (in Dar-es-Salaam), to Mzee Said Saad Ally (a retired transporter) and the late Mama Ghania Ally Suleiman (was a good businesswoman), she used to breed chicken). “I guess I have acquired some business strength from both sides.” Being a second born, Khadija is flanked by two siblings (an elder brother Arafat Said Saad and a younger sister Fatma Said Saad). “I attended Olympio Primary School for my formal education, before proceeding to Shabaan Robert Secondary School for further education.” By then, her organizing and creative talent were emerging, in such a way that the earlier mentioned idea of showcasing her first-ever collection via a fashion show and a music concert became unstoppable. Through had word, self-confidence, enthusiasm and motivation, Khadija was already winning top awards in the field just a of years after graduation. “I designed the winning wardrobes for the ‘beauty queens’ winners of the Miss Tanzania Beauty Competition. Among them were Basila Mwanukuzi (1998), Jacqueline Ntuyabaliwe (2000) and Happines Magese (2001).” To broaden her experience during those early years of her career, Khadija travelled to the United States to participate in the show named Black Heritage Day (in Huston, Texas) involving different cultures from all over the world. She also took part in “Sisters 2 Sisters” fundraising promotion show for widows from a different ethnic background in the Brooklyn. “I participated in this show to promote my collections as well as create fashion awareness for Tanzania abroad.” Back home in Tanzania Khadija continued to set the pace of African fashion to the world. Among her meaningful contribution was a fashion show at the 55th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference hosted by President Kikwete in 2009, at Ngurudoto, Arusha. As a trendsetter, Khadija squeezes inspiration right within her beautiful country’s environment. She acquired her justification through a grand fashion show staged recently in Dodoma (with some member of parliament doing the catwalk) to promote the ‘Tanzania Mitindo House.’ An NGO that utilizes fashion designing in the country for community-based charity geared at assisting HIV/AIDS orphans. The hard-working and super talented Khadija has never allowed her mild physical disability become of any obstacles towards her endeavours. “Karibu to explore and share my conquests in fashion under two successful labels Khadija Mwanamboka Tanzania and Pendeza (Children’s clothesline), VVK Foods, Events and Social Responsibility Initiatives – Ujuzi Initiative – Unleash Women and Youth Potential, Ambassador of SHIVYAWATA – Women and Children with Disability.” Ms KHADIJA SAID SAAD MWANAMBOKA is a unique treasure, a role model and a lady truly worthy to be illustrated. -------------------------------- David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com