THE National Bank of Commerce (NBC) Limited Tanzania has been recognised for its efforts towards local jobs creation and skill development especially in partner with Tanzania Employment Services Agency (TaESA) to implement the National Internship Programme among the youth. Making the remark recently in Dar es Salaam, the Minister in Prime Minister’s Office Labour, Youth, Employment and Persons with Disability Hon. Jenista Mhagama during the SADC Labour Ministers and Stakeholders further said that their work worth emulation. The much coveted award was handed over to them by the Vice- President Mama Samia Suluhu and received by the institution’s Managing Director, Mr Theobald Sabi during the event that brought together different stakeholders in the labour and employment space from both the private and public sectors. It was noted that NBC deserved to be the prime recipient of the award, because of the role they it played in the National Internship Programme efficiently. By December 2019, the bank had placed 81 young Tanzanians in intern positions, and raised the number to 126 in January 2020, besides offering permanent positions to four of them in its various departments. In his remarks during the recent Southern African Development Community (SADC) Labour and Employment Ministers meeting in Dar es Salaam, NBC Managing Director, Mr Sabi said that the bank does not only provide the interns with valuable soft and technical skills during their internship, but provide them with an allowance for their daily upkeep. Gracing the occasion, the Vice President said that youth unemployment remains a global challenge, and hence called upon SADC leaders and different stakeholders to implement collaborative programmes, which would create jobs in the region. With an estimated 60 percent of the SADC labour force being the youth, Mama Samia urged that the region should exploit the youth’s full potential to effectively promote economic growth and eradicate poverty. NBC plans to take in a further 100 interns in its 2020 bank’s Career Training Program and provide them with a training on sales leadership, customer experience/ service, credit, NPL management, trade finance, and team effectiveness as skills, which are necessary to develop them in their current roles and future employment opportunities.