UNION Sports Club continue to command the Division B league after securing  a 17-run victory over Estim in the Paul Manyanda Memorial Pro-10 Cricket League held over the weekend at the Annadil Burhan ground in Dar es Salaam. Following the victory over Estim, Union Sports Club have now won all six games they have played so far. Prior to the loss, Estim defeated MCC by eight wickets to secure a third position in the league standings. It was unlucky day for MCC as they lost their second game to K&P Construction by nine wickets. They are now bottom-placed. A win for K&P Construction was the first in this season as they had lost six consecutive games before. Whereas it has ensured a step forward from the bottom after pocketing 2 points in 7 games they played. The big game of the day was between DCC and Lions CC and the latter won by two wickets. Still despite the loss DCC and Lions have in points after each pocketing six points from six-game outings. Both sides have won 3 games and lost 3 others, but DCC are placed fourth and Lions fifth. Meanwhile, the national cricket team Head Coach, Steve Tikolo, is pleased with the quality game displayed by his team during preparation for 2020 ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Africa Qualifier in South Africa from April 25th to May 4th this year. Steve had two build up games in which divided his 22 players into two teams; Team A and Team B training at the Dar es Salaam University oval on Sunday and Anadir Burhan Stadium on Saturday. Speaking shortly after the training, Tikolo said, “Both games have been important in improving my squad, noticing their weakness and work on them. With these training it has been easy to improve their quality and increase efficiency.” “Generally, they are doing well; I am pleased with their form. They have been working hard every day and I am impressed with the efforts they put at trainings.” He added, he would add a dose of exercise that would help the players be more careful as to the type of competition they were going to participate requires them to get at least 140 runs. He also said that he will be leaving for Zimbabwe this Saturday with 18 players who will be officially named soon. “We shall leave this Saturday to Zimbabwe with 18 players. We expect to have six build up games in Zimbabwe to sharpen the squad before the tournament begins at the end of April in South Africa.” 