NATIONAL beach volleyball team has stepped intensive training in Dar es Salaam despite worldwide COVID-19 outbreak. The team is being prepared for the Regional Beach Volleyball Championships, scheduled to be held from March 27th to 29th this year at Coco Beach in Dar es Salaam. Bringing together national teams from South Africa, Ghana, Niger, Sudan and hosts Tanzania, the tournament serves as the second round of the Africa Tokyo 2020 Olympic Group B qualifiers. Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) Secretary General, Alfred Selengia told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam on Saturday that his team will continue with preparations because the event has not been cancelled. “So far, we have not received any communication regarding the cancelation of the event and this means we will proceed as planned. Our preparations and all other training programmes will continue until announced otherwise,” said Selengia, who is also the national team’s Head Coach. He added that all players are in good shape and are doing well in practice every morning. He further said that they have made some changes in the squad, after Burundi based player Jackson Mmary failed to join the team. Mmary, who play professional volleyball with Burundian Champions Lukinzo team, was summoned a week ago to join and strengthen the national team ahead of the coming event. “Mmary could not travel due to several technical reasons, but Said Alhaji is with us to keep his place,” he said. The national team is divided into two, with the first team made by David Neeke, who also plays professional in Kenya and he will pair with Ford Edward. The second team comprises Shukuru Ally and Alhaji. Alhaji partnered Ally when the team clinched Pool 7 Africa Z one V Beach Volleyball champion’s title at the event held at Lido Beach in Entebbe, Uganda in December last year. However, he was dropped to give way Mmary. Tanzania are Z one V pool 7 champions, while South Africa are Z one VI pool 9 winner, Ghana winner (Pool 3 Z one iii), Niger (Pool 4 Z one iii) winner and underdog Sudan enter as best loser from Pool 7 Z one V. Twenty teams including Tanzania have qualified into the second round pooled into four groups of five teams each.