"Naomba msaada, mke wangu ni Nurse wa Mt Meru Hospital, na ndiye aliyempokea na kumhudumia jana, yule mgonjwa wa kwanza wa Corona virus Tanzania!” This was a husband’s cry for help (via a WhatsApp group) after he received some devastating news that his wife, a nurse who attended a coronavirus patient just a day before and now she is back for another day of work, has been quarantined there, waiting to be tested too! “What we need is a telephone number for enquiring in connection with this pandemic.” Fact is that the wife came back home ‘untested’ after work yesterday, the husband’s main worry was his family (of five children), neighbour-hood and the entire community. “As usual, we all met yesterday after work without any precaution and again, this morning, all our children went back to their respective schools, whereas my wife and I had to go to our working premises too!” We all know that ‘World Health Organization’ (WHO) has labelled this coronavirus a ‘global Pandemic,’ creating a quadrant of the century globe’s mysterious! Meaning, after the great plague of Marseille in 1720, followed by ‘cholera pandemic’ in Asia in 1820 and the ‘Spanish flu’ in 1920, some justification emerges towards the appearance of another pandemic. Being much impressed by this gentleman’s attitude and action, I immediately contacted him, believing that he is one of my candidates for “worthy to be illustrated.” He is Mr FRANCIS JULIUS KEMBO, a wildlife or safari tour Guide (mwongoza watalii) with almost two decades of experience, who lives in Arusha. “Yes, my name is a religious one, which refers to Saint Francis of Asis. If you read about the life of St. Francis and compare with my job as a ‘wildlife or Safari tour guide,’ you will realize that I was born a Guide!” Indeed, with such a humanly attitude, this man should be real. I also believe those around him, at ‘Olasiti area,’ are assured of having a good and reliable neighbour. Francis was born in January 29th 1967 at the Musoma hospital. “I’m the firstborn out of eight children of ‘Mama’ Gaudencia Ochilo Ngetti (a house-wife) and ‘Mzee,’ the late Judge Julius Nyakumu Kembo.” At school age, the young Francis was sent to Mwisenge Primary School before being transferred to Mugumu School within Serengeti district, to finalize his Primary School education. “Then, I joined St Pius Makoko Seminary for my O-level education before proceeding to Lake High School in Mwanza for my A-level.” As usual, by then, High School graduation was immediately followed by a compulsory National Service (JKT). His intake was the ‘Operation Miaka30 ya Uhuru (MTU)’ at Masange, Tabora. Somehow influenced by the Seminary education, Francis was a hard-working and committed ‘recruit.’ “I immediately became the leader (commonly known as ST) of our D-Coy (Danger Coy). On top of all that, I was the leader of our choir group as well as the captain of our Basket-ball team.” Obviously, Francis had an option to permanently join the regular military (JWTZ). Besides, even those top party leaders by then; including Mzee Rashid Kawawa, Mzee Lawrence Gama and Mzee Moses Nnauye did notice this young man’s leadership. quality in all activities. “However, my heart simply didn’t accept this invitation to join the Army.” After several other stop-overs, Francis found himself landing into his current profession of a ‘Safari Tour guide.’ “Despite the mentioned facts of my biblical name, at first, I didn’t like this profession. instead, I simply joined to enable me sustain my life, support my younger brothers and sisters and of course my mother, since that was soon after the death of our beloved father.” Now, it’s almost 20 years since Francis got stuck and developed his true love for this profession. “I ‘m representing my country as a ‘tour guide’ to our guests from all over the world. I ‘m also proud to know that TANAPA is aware of my contribution too.” With his wife (Neema Kombo), the couple is blessed with five children (Gaudencia, Festo, Julius, Raphael and Glory). Mr FRANCIS KEMBO’s reaction is a message of encouragement and hopes to all of us. The Tanzanian government has reacted too, by closing all educational institutions as well as cancelling all scheduled gatherings and entertainments, at least for a period of 30 days from the 17th of March. “It’s about us, to help our government by washing our hands, avoiding crowds, reporting instead of only criticizing the government. - ‘Mpende jirani yako kama unavyojipenda.” Says Francis. By the way, Neema’s laboratory results indicated that she is ‘not infected with the coronavirus.’ “Still, we will continue undertaking all necessary precautions until the total eradication of this pandemic” insists Francis. The man is unique and role model to many of us. No doubt, he is worthy to be illustrated. David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com