INDIAN High Commissioner to Tanzania Sanjiv Kohli has called upon Tanzanians to utilise free education opportunities offered by Indian universities in a programme that, among other things, aims at strengthening long-term friendship between the two countries. Each of the 40 private and government universities available in India has expressed readiness to offer $3,500 (over 8m/-) to each Tanzanian student selected to pursue higher education studies. The Indian diplomat made the call in Dar es Salaam on Thursday at the Indian universities’ exhibition where free registration to Tanzanians who turned up to apply for scholarships was conducted. However, the high commissioner clarified that the sponsorship covered tuition fees, accommodation and meal allowances. “Selected students will be obliged only to pay for personal needs. The entry exam is set to take place in Dar es Salaam on May 6, this year. There is a variety of courses from low level of education (certificate) to the highest one and selected students will join their respective universities from the coming academic year,” said Mr Sanjiv Kohli. He further revealed that for a long time, apart from this kind ($3,500) of offer, India had been also offering full sponsorships, wherein every year, about 500 Tanzanians had been joining both short and long-term studies in India. Commenting on what unique Tanzanian students would expect from Indian universities, which might not be offered by local higher learning institutions, the event (free registration exercise) organiser from the Indian Ministry of Education, Mr Anshul Gupta, said: “India is well advanced in fields of research, technology, computer science as well as medicine, among others, from which Tanzanians can win a lot for personal betterment and their country’s at large.” “Again, the universities offer yoga studies and practices in all universities for a person’s physical and mental fitness. People of both countries will also have chances to share their experiences in all aspects of life, including cultures and traditions,” he said.