DURING last week 22nd-23rd February 2020 meeting with miners, businesses persons and other stakeholders at Julius Nyerere Convention centre in Dar es Salaam official tin certification allowing Tanzania join Tin exporting countries was made public. Without such certificate, notwithstanding how Tanzania was mining tin, entering tin market competitively was through third part and challenges of using third part are well known particularly in price discovery. Tin is a relatively scarce element. Its deposits are generally associated with acid igneous rocks that make the only mineral of commercial importance as source of tin cassiterite. With permit to export to the world market, Tanzania effectively join Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Nigeria, Zaire, Brazil, Bolivia and parts of Australia. To-date, research indicates that world tin proven reserve, based on tin resource verification indicates that Tanzania is entering tin export market when resources in most tin exporting nation are known. For instance; Thailand and Malaysia each has proven resource of 1,200, 000 tonnes metal content. Indonesia 1,550,000; Brazil 400,000; Burma 500,000; Nigeria 280,000; UK 260,000, DRC 200,000; Australia 330,000; China 1,500,000; USSR 1000,000 to mention a few. Such statistics are vital for Tanzania to prepare itself to enter into market that might be seen lucrative but competitive given off taker agreements and long term supply contract with already key players amidst price declining. Tin is a metallic chemical element which has the characteristics of extraordinary malleability and ductibility at low temperatures, softness, lightness, corrosion resistance, anti-friction ability and easy conductivity and fusibility. Many of you might not be aware, but these properties make tin the indispensable metal and time and again make them number one metal for a wide range of uses in modern industry. Its malleability at low temperatures, together with its softness and lightness, means that it can certainly be rolled or beaten into thin sheets and used as a foil for electrical condensers and wrapping. The ease with which tin can be alloyed with other metals and the desirable properties that such mixing produces have given rise to the important in-alloys industry. Currently, tin-copper alloys such as bronze, gunmetal and brassare used for coinage, bearings, high-pressure steam plants and military hardware,etc.The high fusibility of tin produces tin-lead alloy known as solder, which is used to join the edges of less fusible metal. The uses of tin are many and varied. The use of tin as a coating on steel sheets to form tinplate accounts for about 40 per cent, solder 28 per cent, white metal and pewter 7 per cent, chemicals 7 per cent, bronze 6 per cent, tinning 4 per cent and others 8 per cent. The range of applications of tin varies from doing little more than filling a hole-such as, for example, a body-filling material in car production to very sophisticated jointing procedures as in the electronics industry. From an economic point of view, the calculation of ore reserves is a matter of economics that Tanzania needs to be aware of. What might be not an economic grade of ore at one point in time can be economic at a higher price level and vice versa. Assessments have varied with time, and are generally valid for the economic conditions of cost and price at the precise time or reserve calculation made. As Tanzania gain access to tin market following certification approval it is vital to remember between 1960 and 1979 world production of tin grew at 1.22per cent  per annum. Research indicates that throughout this period, Malaysia dominated production, although its share has started to decline gradually since the mid-1960s. Mine production in Bolivia on the other hand has stagnated since1972 believed to be due to a poor investment climate, high costs, labour, unrest and political problems while in Nigeria and Zaire has declined since the late 1960s. The only countries that have increased tin out-put significantly and constantly in the last decade are Indonesia, Thailand and Brazil that currently supply over 70 per cent of the market. This trend in my opinion is a wake up call to Tanzania to strategically plan our entry in line with envisioned investment needed. Tin ores are commonly treated on or near the mine site to produce a concentrate. The method of treatment that Tanzania needs to understand depends on the nature and grade of the ore mined and the method of mining. Usually most of the producing countries' ores had to be smelted elsewhere, a kind of set-up that in my opinion denied these nations to benefit from their own resources well. This pattern has changed substantively in recent years and it is my beliefs Tanzania with its tin certification at hand will look beyond exporting raw tin ore by thinking of smelter for value addition and preparing to produce products made up of tin for more value at competitive price. With such thinking through tin mining jobs will be created, taxes and multiplier effects will be of more value to Tanzania. Today, most of the major tin producers have modern smelting facilities of their own. Between 1962 and 1970 Nigeria, Thailand and Bolivia established smelters. Smelting capacity in Brazil and Spain for example has increased extensively. Bolivia unlike countries such as DRC plans to have smelting capacity to process all its mine production. The establishment of smelters in these countries is considered to be the first step to encourage greater processing in the tin industry. As of end of 2019, according to international tin council, there are 43 primary tin smelters in the world, located in 24 countries a 150 to 60,000 tonnes annual capacity. The 13 largest smelters account for over 85 per cent of the total estimated capacity of over 300,000 tonnes of refined tin. Tin certification to boost export in Tanzania needs to take cognizant of tin demand amidst emerging technology in the market. Analysis as of January 2020 indicates that, the United States has been the single most important tin consuming country with a share of about 21per cent of total world consumption, followed by Japan with14per cent, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom, each with about 6per cent. Industrialised countries' world tin consumption has developed more slowly than that of other metals: at 1.7per cent per annum from 1955-74, compared to 4.8per cent per annum for copper, 8.3per cent per annum for aluminium and 4.6per cent for Zinc. Between 1977 and 1979, total demand in industrialised countries deteriorated marginally. Consumption in industrialised countries has in fact fluctuated around a flat trend. When the developing countries and centrally planned economies led by china are added in, the trend growth of world consumption becomes positive, but only marginally. Total consumption as experts put it grew at an average annual rate of only 0.5per cent per annum between 1960 and 1990. The main reason for this slow growth was the increasing substitution of tin-free steel and aluminium for tinplate in can manufacture industry. In addition, technical innovation has reduced the quantity of tin needed in tinplate. Institutional marketing structures affecting tin prices are in my opinion key to Tanzania as it prepare to enter international tin market. Based on analysis on global tin market, the structure of the tin industry makes it difficult for tin producers or smelters to sell directly to the end users of tin. Excess supply and slowing demand is making tin, one of the poorest performing commodities since 2015. The tin market has continued to spiral downwards this year, dejected mainly by a supply glut due to increased production in Myanmar and weakening demand for the metal from China, as well as a strong US dollar. In addition, tin has also been acknowledged as the number one conflict mineral and targeted by new legislation to prevent illegal flow, that in my opinion further complicate the market. According to Bloomberg sources, the metal has been seeing its biggest first-half decline since at least 1990, with prices hitting five and a half year lows of $14,550/metric tonne (mt) on the London Metal Exchange back in April 2016. And tin price hasn’t recovered much, demonstrated by the tin cash price closing at $16,087.50/mt on the LME on 16 October, a decline of around 16.6per cent compared with the same period last year when it stood at $19,295. Is the outlook for tin’s future as bleak as its market performance has been in the previous years or is the fortunes of the metal, of which 53per cent is used as a solder for electronic goods, set to improve? These questions and concern should prepare Tanzania to enter tin market competitively. Based on the literature, gauging prices and complexities encountered in tin trading, the outlook for the future is slightly more hopeful, hence, going forward, for Tanzania the involvement of its DFIs in collaboration with state mining company STAMICO can make effective resource beneficiation come true. The use of DFI in transforming this rare earth metal also known as technological mineral to earn Tanzania good return can be achieved, if financial resource mobilisation that might require long-term investment is employed. I am of the opinion that despite historically cyclic price drive, as tin’s largest end-use is a solder and global electronics production in the ever increasing digital application space, future demand will remain a key factor that that will determine the metal’s mandate. For Tanzania, it is high time for DFI to closely work with state mining company to design a model that would help to process mined raw tin into market tradable products to realise true value of tin extracted in Kyerwa. This would, in the end fetch a new hope to artisanal miners and licensed traders in Ngara District of Kagera Region and nation as whole to see the value of tin mineral in Tanzanian soil.   