FEW days after coronavirus hit Tanzania, the Media Council of Tanzania (MCT) has appealed to journalists to adhere to professionalism in reporting issues related to the pandemic. “Coronavirus is dangerously and capable of ripping families and nations apart, but there is no need for the journalists to create panic and anxiety in the country,” MCT Executive Secretary Kajubi Mukajanga cautioned. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, he advised the media not to sensationalise coronavirus reports to sell more copies to the detriment of people’s wellbeing. “We have to report the pandemic accurately and should avoid capitalising on sensational headlines to boost sales. When you have a disaster of such magnitude it is pertinent to know that there will be so much information whose accuracy is not guaranteed which, in turn, fuels hysteria and paranoia.” He added that there would be others who would be fabricating issues and posting on social media fake news. Mr Mukajanga also cautioned against a tendency of turning disasters into commercial opportunities. “Headlines must project a real situation instead of creating panic.” For TVs, Mr Mukajanga said broadcasters should be rational and careful on their selection of photos to be used. On wearing masks, he said the World Health Organisation (WHO) had stressed their importance and that they were meant for those infected and those caring for those living with coronavirus. He said the calamity was multi-dimensional as it affected not only health, but also the economy, culture and sports. He further advised the media that the pandemic required comprehensive reporting, showing comparison with other calamities. Mr Mukajanga also appealed to the media to stick to journalistic ethics and avoid being preachers of coronavirus. He also urged them to use statistics accurately to avoid creating panic. Emphasising the pivotal role of the media, Mr Mukajanga said: “We are the ones who inform members of the public and at the same time take information from leaders to members of the public and give feedback to them. We need to abide by professional standards.” He urged the media to use reputable sources such as the government and WHO and avoid picking reckless posts from social media. Mr Mukajanga said the media should bring hope and promote the type of journalism that aimed at giving solutions instead of creating panic.