A WEEK or so ago, I wrote an article my usual sports column during which I laid accent on the importance of starting with amateur boxing before turning pro. My argument was in support of former Tanzania’s boxing idol, Rashid Matumla, who had been shouted down by some professional boxers, who had not gone through amateur boxing rank. Matumla had noted that some of the problems professional boxers were facing had more to do with having not gone through amateur boxing rank. Matumla had spent quite some years, in amateur boxing and when he finally turned pro, he was very successful before he retired from boxing. Matumla arguments were not spot on, especially to some of us who had followed his performance both in his days as an amateur boxer and when he later turned into a professional boxer. And, when you compare Matumla to most of the present crop of professional boxers, it is easy to grasp Matumla’s arguments. Agreed some of them have done quite well, despite having straight gone into professional rank, but such boxers are very few. Therefore, instead of shouting down a person who has gone through the thick and thins of the sport. One would have expected such professional boxers to seek Matumla’s assistance in correcting the problems he had noted. After the publication of my article, one of my readers James Odero emailed me his response on what I had written. Given the kind of arguments he raised, I think they are very critical to the development of sports and boxing in particular. For instance, he has raised a question which we rarely talked about in this country, namely, the question of providing our sportsmen and women in their personal lives, through life coaching. Life coaching is extremely important, especially after the end of their sporting career. For instance, we all know the kind of problems our sportsmen and women land into at the end of their sporting career when they are reduced to paupers. That is why these people need life skills in order to avoid getting into such problems. It is for that reason that I have included…a piece which he had written to me so that my readers can get his perspective. My response to your article titled; Why amateur before pro boxing is important. Since 2018 when I first read your article in the Daily News, I noted with awe how passionate about sports you are. Not only that. Your conviction that results are not accidentally achieved, but created and earned challenged us, your readers, to think about the process rather than the end result. I subscribed. To date, you delve in ‘development’ even with a keener focus to entrench all disciplines within sports to the culture of nurture and its place in molding all-round athletes. Just in the same manner that an idea is subjected to tests and analysis to check for viability and self-sustainability in the long run, so do we need nurture to curve out one’s potential and systematically develop it to bring out the best version of themselves. Systematic development means that the growth process is not instantaneous. It is a deliberate effort to impart the best skills while exposing one to fresh challenges from one stage to another (higher) stage up to the level that they are accomplished. Systematic development gives room for appraisal including an ability to gauge and rank one against contemporaries based on universal standards. It can be traced. Therefore, to the extent that one is declared a professional having gone through the process, say in boxing, it’s expected that other than individual brilliance, the athlete is complete with the right training. But just how many professionals can we count? Where can we trace their history? Tragedy is that we have individuals obsessed with credit and glory, even if they don’t know how the glory is earned, at the helm of our sport federations. These cliques are patient enough to wait for a decade to celebrate an individual’s achievement than to invest in a process in the same period to graduate ten professional athletes. Perhaps this partly explains why Kenya’s Conjestina Achieng’ is a frequent guest at the rehab. And didn’t you hear Fatuma Zarika ‘celebrate’ out of frustration when she lost her super-bantamweight title to Mercado in Mexico? The four times holder of the title, blamed lack of support from both the federation and the government for her loss and was happy that the belt would go to a place where it is valued. Other than professional training, all athletes should be entitled to life coaching as well. They should be able to make decisions, choices and judgment and only fail as humans do, not because they lack the life skills. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk