TANZANIA Civil Society Forum on Climate Change (FORUMCC) has postponed its two-day annual 2020-climate change symposium that was expected to start early next week in the wake of pandemic coronavirus spreading in the society. The symposium that was scheduled to start on 25th to 26th this month in Dar es Salaam Region, aimed at promoting climate accountability and building partnerships for increased climate action has been postponed as a precaution measure to stop the spread of the disease. Equally, it was organised to help put Tanzania on a path towards low-carbon and resilient to the inevitable impacts of climate change. Making the revelation in Dar es Salaam recently, Tanzania Civil Society Forum on Climate Change (FORUMCC) Programme Director, Ms Angela Damas said that the move will help stakeholders to join hands with the government in efforts to control the spread of the pandemic that has been reported in over 150 countries globally. “We urge all Tanzanians, in particular vulnerable communities to climate change, women and youth to take protective measures against this new virus. We are optimistic that by working together, we will stay safe and achieve climate resilience and sustainable development,” further said Ms Damas. The Director hinted that the symposium was expected to be attended by over 200 diverse actors from civil society organisations, representatives from the government, Parliamentarians, development partners, academic institutions, innovators, private sector, youths, community, women and media  from across Tanzania and beyond. “We will keep the good work going through the online platforms, social media and other media engagements to promote cut emissions and the demand for urgent accountable climate action to secure our future,” he explained. This year, the symposium was expected to run with the theme ‘Science, Policy and Practice: Working together for Climate Resilience, Low Carbon pathway and Sustainable Development.’ It was also aimed at encouraging interactions between science, policy, practice and research communities, and presided over by local authorities, government departments, business and community groups as well as researchers and consultants with coordination from FORUM CC, being the support of the European Union and other stakeholders.