TANZANIAN basketball player, Sudi Ulanga has returned to Uganda Christian University (UCU) Canons, after leaving the side in 2015. He was released by KIU Titans last season, a team he helped to reach the 2017 National Basketball League (NBL) finals where they lost to City Oilers. The shooting guard recently said that he is looking for next move after finishing with KIU Titans ahead of the 2020 NBL. Ulanga is expected to upgrade his Bachelor’s in Economics Management course at the UCU. Ulanga, who was among 18 players picked to form men’s national team squad that represent Tanzania at the Zone V AfroBasket 2020 Qualifiers in Nairobi, Kenya two month ago, recently said he is not going to retire. He told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Uganda yesterday that everything is going well and already he has landed two years contract with UCU Canons outfit. Ulanga believes that he still has a lot of time left to play and his focus now was to prepare for this season. “I’m happy that UCU have shown faith in me yet again…they have given me two years contract and my focus now is to play and hem my new team excel in NBL,” he said. He helped the Titans to 2017 NBL finals where they lost to City Oilers, but the subsequent seasons have seen him look like he has ran out of steam. He was among many players, including Ugandan Denis Balungu, who were offloaded by the Kansanga side that is currently ‘focusing on rebuilding.’ “I had a great time there but of course with a couple of challenges as well. And it was inevitable for me to move on because at this point in my career I can’t be part of a team that is building up,” Ulanga reflected on his time at KIU. In many occasions last season, Ulanga was the coach of KIU Rangers, a sister team to the Titans. He also played for Falcons basketball team. Ulanga, who is regarded by many basketball pundits as the best shooting guard, will boost a young UCU Cannon team that strolled to NBL finals last season before falling to City Oilers in game seven. He brings with him experience and leadership for a team that is coached by Coach Nicholas Natuhereza. Sudi will indirectly fill the gap left behind by fellow Tanzanian and former Captain Joas Maheta, who graduated last year. He joins the likes of Isaiah Mabeny Ateer, Fayed Baale, Fadhil Chuma, David Deng Kongor, Titus Lual among others.