IN my last two sports columns, I have written on the importance, for sportsmen and women of training, individually and at their respective homes, during this time when all Tanzanians are supposed to avoid getting into groups on account of fighting the deadly corona virus. If this problem of self-isolation is going to take a long time, certainly sportsmen and women who earn their living through sports like those involved, say, in the premier league, are going to be affected. This problem will certainly affect players in the teams which depend, to a great extent, on gate collections and there is little that can be done to solve such a problem until and unless leadership and members of such clubs become more creative. As we all know, scientific development and advancement the world over was made during difficult times; and professional and semi- professional sports in Tanzania finds itself locked in the same problem, confronted with the most difficult time in history. The question is how are soccer clubs currently involved in the premier league going to deal with this problem of lack of money for paying their ‘professional and semi-professional soccer players during this time without assistance from paltry earnings from gate collections? My suggestion is that this is the time for our clubs in the premier league to be more innovative in dealing with this problem, which until three weeks ago, was partly solved through gate collections, especially when lowly placed teams in the league played big clubs like Mtibwa, Kagera Sugar, Azam, Simba and Young Africans. Playing against the foregoing clubs in the league at home or away in Kagera, Morogoro or in Dar es Salaam meant more gate collections which translated in lowly placed teams getting good money from increased number of soccer fans who pay to watch such encounters. One of the things our teams can do, now that there are no gate collections is produce, in mass and in high quality. Such products, in their teams’ colours, could include, among other things, caps, scarf, Khanga and Kitenge prints, their respective jerseys, wrist watches and so on and so forth. But a word of caution for our clubs’ managements. If they want to make good money from their products that carry their club colours, there are two, important things they need to keep in their minds. One, whatever product they produce that carry the colours of their respective clubs, such products must be of the highest quality. If it’s a cap, it must be of top quality; and the same thing if they produced jerseys. Whatever jerseys they produce for their members and fans, must be such that they can also wear as part of their clothes, and not cheap stuff we see people put on in Dar es Salaam and which purport to represent colours of Young Africans or Simba. Secondly, clubs managements should, strictly, control the production and distribution of such products. If they don’t, then unscrupulous people will get into the business and the end result is that players and teams will not benefit. Dealing with the second problem is extremely important, especially for a country like Tanzania which has succeeded in transforming corruption almost to a profession the government’s efforts to deal with the problem notwithstanding. Top flight soccer clubs like Simba and Young Africans need to be more careful than any club in the country, if they decide to get into this kind of business because of the massive strength of the base of their fans that run in millions. The two soccer clubs need to be more careful because financial exploitation of the two clubs are known from time immemorial and a major study on that was conducted by the former national soccer coach who coached both clubs, the late Syllersaid Mziray. In his study of both clubs, Mziray discovered that the two clubs supported, financially, 6,000 families in Dar es Salaam who had nothing to do with football! Representatives of the 6,000 families were members/ fans who followed the two clubs wherever the clubs travelled to except outside the country. In fact, it is these same people who have always been behind the two clubs’ leadership crises which they always stir up whenever club leaders try to plug in financial holes on gate collection. According to some sources, the sprawling national stadium is supposed to collect one billion Tanzanian shillings when it is packed to the brim. But the stadium has hardly earned 600m/-! Any elected leaders from either of the two clubs who want to introduce financial discipline in either of the two clubs would always be voted out through club crisis engineered by representatives of the 6,000 Dar based families. But if our clubs get into the kind of business I have suggested above, they should solve, with ease, their clubs’ financial problems, especially now after the suspension of the league. You can imagine how much clubs like Simba or Young Africans can earn from selling of say jerseys with the millions of fans they have not only in Tanzania but outside the country. For instance, if a jersey sold say at 50,000/-how much would Simba or Yanga earn if either of the two clubs sold say one million jerseys? The same thing can be said about a club like Mtibwa or even Mbao FC. But as I have already noted, the trick is to control the business; Not to allow people who have nothing to do with the club to get their hands into the business. If Mbao FC in Mwanza has 500,000 members, fans who bought a club’s jersey at 5,000/- that is already quite a hefty sum that should go a long way towards solving the club’s financial problems. Young Africans and Simba are reported to have over three million fans each which is quite a big number if they exploited their fan base through business which includes what I have suggested above. But as I have already noted, they need to control the business if they want to make the kind of money that would make their present financial problems history. Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/ author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk