THE United Republic of Tanzania (Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar) has asserted its capability in dealing with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic which has plagued different countries across the world, including our own country. So far, there are 14 patients who have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in Tanzania – that is Mainland Tanzania (11 patients) and Zanzibar (3) as of yesterday afternoon. No death has been reported yet from either Mainland Tanzania or Zanzibar. For this, we ask God to continue helping us to find the lasting solution to coronavirus and protecting all Tanzanians against contracting it and its adverse effects on the country and people. We pray also for global solidarity in the war on Covid-19. Let our scientists study well the disease and find its vaccine or cure as soon as possible lest we continue losing people as it is reported in various countries across the world. The government, through its officials and experts, is raising public awareness to ensure citizens take preventive measures to minimise chances of contracting the deadly disease. It has also taken steps to designate several hospitals where those diagnosed with the disease can be taken, has suspended studies from pre-primary school to university level for one month and gatherings that can be avoided. Citizens are advised to wash their hands with soap and sanitise themselves whenever they leave or return home or the workplace. Religious leaders have also been advised to take preventive measures by enlightening their followers on how to protect themselves against the disease. Likewise, it has strengthened screening of visitors entering the country through entry points such as airports, ports and border check points. The private sector is also not behind in this fight. Telecommunications service providers and banks, for instance, inform their customers to take preventive measures as directed by the government and health experts. With this concerted effort, we are sure of contributing to global efforts to fight against Covid-19. According to worldometers.info, until yesterday 11:58am there were 614,224 coronavirus cases, 28,240 deaths from coronavirus and 137,328 people had recovered worldwide. The same source shows that until that time there were 448,656 active cases: 424,659 patients (95 per cent) in mild condition and 23,997 patients (5 per cent) were serious or critical. There were also 165,568 closed cases – that is 137,328 recovered/discharged (83 per cent) and 28,240 deaths (17 per cent). So, the threat of Covid-19 is real and it requires global efforts to curb it. Let us all join efforts to fight against this deadly disease for together we can succeed.