FROM time immemorial illicit drugs ranging from Cocaine that normally comes in a powder form to Heroin and Marijuana being consumed by some people in th e public. The effects on th eir bodies and brains later on become regrettable. Many such people h av e suffered painful h ealth consequences th at are long-lasting and permanent, despite some even persist after one stops tak ing th e substances. In the society there are a few ways an addict can tak e such drugs, including injection, inh alation and ingestion and th e effects of th e drug on th e body can depend on how th e drug is delivered. For example, the injection of drugs directly into th e bloodstream has an immediate impact, wh ile ingestion h as a delayed effect. But at the end of the day, all misused drugs affect th e brain and cause large amounts of dopamine, a neurotransmitter that helps regulate our emotions, motivation and feelings of pleasure, to flood the brain and produce a “high . ” Eventually, th e drugs can ch ange h ow th e brain work s and interfere with th e person’s ability to mak e ch oices, lead to intense cravings and compulsive drug use. Over time, th is beh av ior can turn into a substance dependency or drug addiction and render th e consumer a ‘slave,’ hence with th e abov e back ground, th e gov ernment; being th e custodian of its citizens has all th e righ ts to figh t it tooth and nail. It is good news to Tanzanians th at th e Fifth Phase government h as curbed it by 9 5 percent especially th eir importation into th e country, as Parliament was told in a sitting. Making th e rev elation th e Minister of State in th e Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Youth , Employment and the Disabled), Jenister Mhagama, said after th e government succeeding to seal looph oles for drug traffickers. The authority is now focusing on treating those who had been affected. According to th e minister, th e gov ernment had also establish ed a major addiction treatment centre in Hega, Dodoma to h elp peddlers who are committed to quit th e business. She added that the government h ad issued a directive to the managements of all referral hospitals countrywide to ensure that th ey have special windows for giving meth adone to drug addicts. “ After treating them, we want the reformed persons to engage in economic activities so that they may not relapse to drug abuse… we have a programme in the Prime Minister’s Office, wh ich seek s to prov ide sk ills to v arious people, including th ose wh o h av e decided to q uit drugs,’’ said Ms Mhagama. This means th at th e gov ernment of th e people, for th e people and by the people is making great ach iev ement in making the society (nationals) realise th at such drugs are not used in th eir midst, but instead also removed from peddlers in th eir syndicate.