MOTORISTS in Singida Region were the latest group of road users who benefited from Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) Don’t drink and drive campaign that supports government efforts in combating road accidents. Speaking after road safety reflective jackets to Boda Boda riders at the main commuter Bus Terminus in Singida over the weekend, the Region’s Traffic Police Officer (RTO), Edson Mwakihaba said the campaign aims to educate all the road users, especially the drivers on responsible alcohol consumption - an important step taken by SBL curbing the many tragic incidents that are associated with irresponsible drinking. “We all know that alcoholism is directly linked to reckless driving which in some cases leads to serious road accidents which have serious impacts in the society. The impacts not only affect consumers but also endanger the lives of others, thus losing or disabling many people who otherwise would have contributed to the country’s social-economic growth,” he said. He commended SBL for organizing the campaign, saying that by involving the police force, the beer-maker had set the ball rolling in supporting the government in creating awareness on the dangers of irresponsible drinking among the motorists and other road users. The campaign has over the past one year been held in eight regions including Mwanza, Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Dodoma, Tanga, Arusha, Moshi and Iringa over 100,000 people. Mwakihaba noted that a cross-section of the population, especially the drivers, consumed alcohol excessively without considering the repercussions caused by their actions, cautioning that such negligence could lead to fatal accidents. He noted that besides causing un-called-for deaths and injuries, the resultant accidents from irresponsible alcohol consumption have serious impacts on the health sector for they overburden the sector’s already bloated budget through treatment and the provision of other services to the victims. “These accidents also overburden our law enforcement officers because they have to daily handle scores of traffic cases which could otherwise have been avoided, which, more often than not, are caused by drunken driving”, he said. The SBL’s Government Relations Manager, Neema Temba said that responsible drinking campaign aims at building awareness to the targeted cadre that an alcohol consumer need not to get addicted, noting that they can drink responsibly and get on with their pleasures without unprecedented incidences. “SBL is committed to joining hands with the government and other like-minded individuals, organizations and stakeholders in ensuring that the community, especially the drivers who are mostly prone to drink-induced accidents are sensitized on the dangers of irresponsible drinking and urged to practice safe and responsible drink.