AS the day turns into night, with darkness, like a heavy blanket, covering the sky, a few stubborn stars broke away, and could be seen twinkling millions of miles away. Looking at the stars, as they struggled to make their presence felt around the thickening darkness, my mind wandered to a young soul, shining like a bright star, knowing no bounds. Catherine Mollel is young, energetic, and ambitious and just like a stubborn star, she shines against all odds. Her story, after listening to her, can continue to inspire fellow young souls on how to fight for your dreams against all odds, as long as there is commitment and determination. At the age of nine, her father thought she was ripe enough to become someone’s wife and he did not waste any time to look for a suitor for her. But with luck smiling on her her, she was rescued from an early marriage by her uncle, who knew the importance of educating a girl child. Catherine's uncle brought her to live with him in a nearby village, determined to take her to school and avail opportunities to her. While in school, the young girl did not waste time and threw herself into sports, where she was actively involved in football and basketball….. she later dropped football for basketball. Through her efforts and commitment, Catherine’s star did not take long to be noticed, because Raymond Ngezi, the under 16 national basketball coach, spotted her when she was only 15 years. In only one year, Catherine became a national team star and inspired a lot of girls, becoming a role model through her achievement and story. In the words of her coach, Catherine was a fighter and a good example of a leader on the court. “The girl has the heart of a lion, because at any time of day or night, she is ready to compete against any team, whether men or fellow women, and she can face opponents who are much stronger than her,” he says. She recalled playing in the Zone 5 Qualifier finals against Rwanda and scored 35 points and 16 rebounds, a fete which sent the Tanzanian national team to the African Championships for the first time. “I was over the moon when I helped my team qualify for FIBA competitions, but scoring 35 points and 16 rebounds made me more proud,” she says. As a team captain in the FIBA Africa U16 Girls Basketball Championship in Rwanda, she averaged 16 points and 13 rebounds in a game, making her the fifth leading scorer in the international tournament that included teams from Mali, Egypt and many more African countries. As the top basketball player in Tanzania Junior Girls National Basketball Team, she was selected to represent Tanzania at a one week NBA Africa Academy training in Senegal, where she was highly commended by her coaches when she returned home. Due to her efforts, she was selected twice to attend the Giants of Africa Basketball camp hosted by the President of Basketball Operations,Masai Ujiri. This year, the US Embassy in Tanzania sponsored Catherine and two of her school teammates to the United States to participate in a U.S. Department of State Sports Diplomacy Program in Washington, D.C. for two weeks. During the program, they did basketball and had life skills training. They also got an opportunity to watch an NBA game at the Capital One Arena, visit the Library of Congress and the Capitol Hill. Catherine is not only the leading basketball girl scorer, rebounder and a great young leader, but she also spends her time coaching primary school girls in her community through Orkeeswa School's Grow the Game program which trains basketball to seven primary schools in Monduli, Arusha Region. Grow the Game program has a total of over 300 primary school girls who train at Orkeeswa School grounds and provides for them all the necessary sport gears and equipment to ensure they don't just practice and play the game, but they thrive while doing it. Boasting of being the best basketball coaches for primary school girls, she has significantly impacted their lives by demonstrating to them a fierce sense of competitiveness, discipline and determination, which makes them dream of one day dominating the court and be able to travel out of their communities and country someday. At Orkeeswa School Senior Girls team, Catherine has led the school to impressive records. They have been the Northern Tanzania Athletic Association (NTAA) champions for years in a row and recurring winners in International Schools' Sports Weekend Champions. Elizabeth Nichols, her life skills teacher and one of her closest mentors, has always been touched by how Catherine has grown, both in school and on the courts. "I have known Catherine for a while now, and I have seen a tremendous change since she joined our school four years ago...I recall how she practically carried the team in the competitions in Rwanda, and how she worked under a lot of pressure to make sure that her team performs exceptionally,” she says. Her achievement both on and outside the court has helped to break the barrier between her and her father, creating a new bond which has brought them a lot more closer. Asked what she inspires to be in the near future, Catherine, with a rueful smile, says she looks forward to becoming a soldier and a basketball legend.