AFRICAN countries are petitioning industrialised nations to start making reparation for climate change disasters. A continental convener of the Climate Action Network (CAN), Mr Mohammed Addo, said Africa remained one of the regions most vulnerable to climate change while it was contributing the least to global warming in both absolute and per capita, further demanding rich nations to pay for the damage caused. “Rich countries should compensate poor countries for the climate change crisis. We need reparation and not hand-outs,” insisted Mr Addo on the sidelines of a CAN annual strategy session held at the weekend. The continental CAN convener stressed that Africa was responsible for just 7.1 per cent of the world’s greenhouse-gas emissions, despite being home to 14 per cent of its people. “Most African countries do not emit much carbon dioxide,” he added. Echoing similar sentiments, V ice-Chairperson of CAN-Uganda Proscovia Vikman said it was high time developed countries took action for environmental and air pollution. She singled out locust invasion wreaking havoc on some countries in East Africa and some islands in Lake V ictoria as a critical example of climate crisis caused by developed nations. “We need natural resources protected, some of the extreme weather has been caused by our own ignorance,” she noted. CAN coordinator from South Africa Thando Lukuko expressed his concern over his country being among the top five global emitters, calling on the government to do something about it. Before the Industrial Revolution, the density of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere– the key cause of global warming – was about 280 parts per million. Today, it is said to have reached 387 parts per million – far above safe limits– and it’s still rising. The developed countries, which represent less than 20 per cent of the world’s population, have emitted almost 75 per cent of all greenhouse-gas pollution-that is now destabilising the climate. Established in 1989, Climate Action Network (CAN) is a worldwide network of over 950 nongovernmental organisations in more than 110 countries, working together to promote government and individual action to limit human-induced climate change to ecologically sustainable levels.