ZANZIBAR plans to establish the blue economy special department as the revolutionary government envisages broadening the sea-based economic activities and integrate them under one solid system. President Ali Mohamed Shein told the 10th Zanzibar Business Forum here yesterday that the government has already formed an expert committee, with members from various sectors, to spearhead the country's drive towards prosperous blue economy. The Zanzibar Planning Commission, said Dr Shein, has been entrusted with the responsibility of preparing the strategy for execution of the blue economy programme. "The government is firmly determined to successfully implement the blue economy concept as implementation of the major development plan in the country’s new 2020-2050 vision,” president Shein assured at Kikwajuni-based Sheikh Idrisa Abdul-wakil conference hall. He described construction of the new port at Mpigaduri area and the envisaged oil and gas port at Mangapwani as well as formation of Zanzibar Fishing Company (ZAFICO) as some of the government initiatives towards the sea-based economy. Besides the procurement of state-of-the-art fishing boat— Sehewa I—another boat— Sehewa II—is under construction, Dr Shein informed the meeting of Zanzibar investors, traders and government officials. The head of state said the government is preparing more strategic projects, citing the Boosting Inclusive Growth of Zanzibar (BIGZ), which is scheduled to commence upon completion of the World Bankfunded Zanzibar Urban Services Project (ZUSP). “All these efforts envision more economic feats; and it’s our hope that the initiatives will enhance productivity in the economy if the private sector will increase cooperation with the government in devising and implementing profitable projects,” said President Shein. He reaffirmed the government commitment to cooperate and work closely with the private sector to help it become strong and capable of running the country’s economy, saying: “The private sector is the engine of growth.” “The government will do whatever it can to nurture strong and powerful private sector, capable of playing the central role in the Zanzibar economy,” the president pledged, imploring the private sector to boost cooperation with the government in exploring and using the available business opportunities in education, health and tourism. He challenged individual investors to establish polytechnics in partnership with the government to equip Zanzibar youths with various skills for the national development. President Shein asked traders and investors in the country to explore new investment avenues to widen the scope of investment areas and create more jobs for wananchi. He cited agriculture and livestock subsectors, which are still yearning for investments, and invited more Zanzibaris to exploit the available potentials, “Right now, there are many livestock and agricultural products which Zanzibar imports because the domestic production is inadequate.” Earlier, Trade and Industry Minister Amina Salum Ali said Zanzibar is endowed with huge potentials in the blue economy, thanks to existence of sufficient resources in the ocean and coastal areas. Ambassador Amina asked delegates to effectively use the forum, which was legally established to cement the relationship system for the government and private sector.