TANZANIANS have been challenged to utilise tourism opportunities in the Great Lakes as stakeholders in the sector prepare themselves to expose openings available in the region through an exhibition doubled “Great Lakes International Tourism Expo (Glite)”. The tourism expo envisages, among other things, unveiling potential tourism opportunities in the zone, including the neighbouring regions of Kigoma and Tabora in which interested individuals can invest. According to Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Prof. Adolf Mkenda, preparations for the tourism exhibition to be held in Mwanza on June 19-21, this year, are complete. On Thursday, several stakeholders met in Mwanza City for the expo inauguration. Participants included Tanzania National Park Authority (Tanapa), Tanzania Wildlife Authority (Tawa), Tanzania Forest Services (TFS), Tanzania Tourism Board (TTB) and members of the public. According to Prof Mkenda, the event is also expected to attract different people from all over the world to expose some of the tourist attractions in their home countries. While in the country, international participants will get an opportunity to visit some tourist places in the Lake Zone, Tabora and Kigoma regions. Prof Mkenda added that since Mwanza Region was the gateway to the Great Lakes that was why stakeholders proposed Mwanza Region to be destination area for exposing tourist attractions found in the Lake Zone together with Tabora and Kigoma regions. Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamis Kigwangalla, said exposing Lake Zone, Tabora and Kigoma tourist attractions would enable the nation to receive more than two million overseas tourists, which would boost national development. He said the expansion of tourist attractions was one of the mechanisms to enable the nation to have a big area to enable different tourists to see and travel for many days in “our national parks and see our traditional customs which attract visitors.” Dr Kigwangalla said more than 150 exhibitors (companies) and tour operators from different nations would be invited to participate in the event. “I mobilise internal and external investors to come to participate in the exhibition. I urge people around this region and in neighbouring regions to provide services to many visitors who will come for this international event,” Dr Kigwangalla noted. For his part, Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC), John Mongella said the region was ready for hosting the big world tourism and investment forum as there were more than 5,000 rooms available and various services.