INTERNATIONAL Women’s Day (IWD) was marked on March 8 with its focal point on women’s rights, particularly gender equality, which is reflected in this year’s theme: ‘I am Generation Equality: Realising Women’s Rights’. In Tanzania, IWD was marked at national level in Simiyu Region and the guest of honour was Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan. Ms Suluhu Hassan’s speech highlighted the areas the government has done to empower them– education, healthcare, decision-making, women’s rights and the fight against gender-based violence and poverty eradication. All acts that dehumanise, oppress and discriminate against women weigh heavily on women and make them unable to participate fully in development projects. The use of abusive language to subdue women and make them inferior to men is unacceptable and should be fought against by all sensible persons. We cannot claim to be fighting against gender-based violence, campaign for gender equality or women’s rights if we still entertain abusive language against women or assault them just because they cannot retaliate. Yes, we are living in society which for years has been under a patriarchal system and it will take time to let it go. Yet, if we are honest with ourselves and with others we cannot entertain it for it leads to gender inequality and exclusivism. As it is often said that ‘behind a man’s success there is a woman’, so it is logical to conclude that women play a significant role in the development of the country. Their contribution starts from family level upwards to national level. Many household chores are done by women, including farming. They are also involved in small and medium-scale businesses even in those activities men would not do, women do it. So, we can say that in most cases women are productive. This means that projects which women are involved in are most likely to succeed than those they are excluded on the basis of gender or stereotyping. This being true, it makes a lot of sense to promote gender equality for it is in this that women can give themselves fully for the betterment of all. We are supportive of the 50:50 representation in politics and in decisionmaking processes. As Tanzania envisions becoming an industrial and middle-income economy by 2025, we are sure of having more women in decision-making processes because we know in the areas they have been entrusted with leadership roles women have done their best for the good of our country. So, let International Women’s Day inspire us to create the world which is free from gender inequality and exclusivism and this starts from us today. That is, let us think globally and act locally to make our world better for all of us.