COFFEE, cashew-nuts and spices from Zanzibar were among products that dominated at the week-long Paris Agricultural Fair, making Tanzania to stand out as a first-time participant. The fair which begun on February 22, this year was earlier scheduled to end on March 1, but due to the outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19), it was forced to end a day earlier on February 28. In an exclusive interview with the “Daily News”, the Ambassador of Tanzania in France, Mr Samwel Shelukindo observed that the country’s participation at the fair has been successful with many follow up orders registered on the spot. “Direct ‘test sales’ of roasted coffee beans prepared at the stand using a coffee machine, fetched about Euro 4,500 equivalent over 11m/-…this is a testimony of Tanzania coffee demand in this market for its unique aroma,” said Ambassador Shelukindo. Equally, investment on cashew processing plant has also been secured. The potential investor is looking for a partner in Tanzania to invest in a factory to process cashew-nuts, discussions are going on. He, however, disclosed that the process of securing a potential investor to come and put up a cocoa processing factory is under discussion. According to him, the potential investor is looking for a Tanzanian partner to invest in chocolate processing plant. Besides, among the biggest French importer of fresh fruits and vegetables has expressed interest to trade with the country. “This is a very big business if everything goes well, as France imports 200,000 tons per year. Efforts have been made to connect them with the Tanzania Horticultural Association (TAHA). Thus, the delegation from Rungis Market of Paris among the main importers of fruits and vegetable in France and in Europe is planning to visit Tanzania soon to explore the market and if possible, to finalize the business. Other products which were exhibited at the fair include tea, cocoa, rice, wine, Konyagi-gin, moringa products, baobab oil, rozella, honey, spices, cassava, maize flour, beans and pickles from nature ripe, sorghum, millet and groundnuts. Among the companies are TAHA, Interstate Co. Ltd, AMIMZA Coffee, Afri-Tea, Tanzania Tea Blenders, Tanzania Tea Board, Tanzania Coffee Board, EPZA, TADB, Tanzania Reassurance Co. Ltd, Follow the Honey, Haiba ya Afrika LTD (Asali ya Bibi), FEDA Food Products, Nature Ripe, Tanzania Cashew-nuts Board, Tanzania Distillers Limited and Kyela Cooperative Union. The Ambassador encouraged Tanzanian Diaspora living in Europe to emulate the strategy used by West Africans to create export windows of locally made products produced by small and medium entrepreneurs from Tanzania. Indeed, Tanzanian participants and exhibitors who took part have gained a lot of experience particularly with regard to information which should be made available to the public in order to attract investors or buyers. Participants have been exposed to new technologies of packaging products showcased by other countries. He further called upon citizens through TAHA to embark on producing fruits and vegetables specific for the French market by engaging into contract farming. “Exporting through a neighboring country may not be ideal in the long run. The Paris Agricultural Fair is must participation fair for Tanzania in order to showcase her agri-products, seeking for investment in the agri-sector and learn new technologies of the sector,” he noted.