TANZANIA Meteorological Authority (TMA) has been urged to use their regulatory mandate to increase efficiency in weather forecast and cost recovery. Opening a five-day capacity building for TMA management on fundamentals of regulations and cost recovery, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works (Transport), Dr Leonard Chamuriho, said TMA had been doing well in weather forecast, but it should increase efficiency. Dr Chamuriho advised the TMA staff to stick to quality service delivery by regulating meteorological services and ensuring adherence to international standards and practices of meteorological services. He said TMA should come up with the best strategy to increase their revenue through a number of fees whose positive impact should be felt in cost recovery of better service delivery. Moreover, he stressed the importance of teamwork for positive results. Dr Chamuriho highlighted the government commitment to increasing weather forecast radar networks to serve Mtwara, Mbeya and Kigoma regions, which he said was additional to current radars in Dar es Salaam and Mwanza. Earlier, TMA Director General, Dr Agnes Kijazi, said capacity building aimed at imparting knowledge and skills to the management team in revenue collection and cost recovery which was a new avenue under the TMA mandate. She said the management team from all eight zones would pass over the knowledge to their subordinates in their respective areas so that they could all speak the same language. Dr Kijazi added that TMA weather forecast accuracy had improved as it was 95 per cent plans were underway to increase it more. The new TMA Act, which was enacted last year, among other things, wants TMA to ensure adherence to standards in installation and maintenance of meteorological instruments and perform monitoring and supervisory functions of meteorological operators. Moreover, under the Act a person who intends to engage in any meteorological observation, weather forecasting activities or weather modification activities shall apply for a permit. An Act to establish the Tanzania Meteorological Authority, to make better provisions for the management, control, provision, coordination and regulation of meteorological services, to repeal specialised meteorological services provided for a specific sector, customer or clients for economic gains or benefits. The functions of TMA shall be to deliver the public good and commercial services in relation to meteorology and implement the national climate related policies in relation to weather and climate matters. TMA also has been mandated under the Act to provide weather and climate services for the safety of life and property and to various users of meteorological services, issue severe weather-related warnings and information. On top of that TMA has been tasked to provide marine meteorological services to shipping, fishing and other marine activities and provide aeronautical meteorological services, advisory services, warnings, products and information and related services to civil aviation. TMA shall have powers to register, issue permit and regulate the establishment and operations of meteorological stations, installation of meteorological instruments in the country.