THE Kilimanjaro 2020 climaxed here early yesterday here with runners from Kenya and Tanzania sharing spoils in the major two disciplines. The World long distance might, Kenya dominated the 42km Full Marathon race while hosts Tanzania gabbed all top honours in 21km Half Marathon. Running along hilly routes of Moshi municipality, the now international class Kilimanjaro Marathon drew runners from all over the road despite ending a solely Kenyan-Tanzanian affair in both men and women categories of the 42km and 21km races. The best from Tanzania came from Tanzania Peoples Defence Force (TPDF) whose runners Magdalena Shauri and Joseph Panga who won the 21km race for women and men’s disciplines respectively. The duo won overpowered their tough rivals from Kenya and Uganda on their to claim gold medals. Besides winning the 21km race, Shauri and Panga set the course records. Shauri, who also holds the national record, clocked 01 hour,09 minutes and 54 seconds while Panga clocked 01 hour,03 minutes and 59 seconds on his way to win men’s category of the 21km event. Second in the men’s 21km race was Josephat Joshua from Tanzania Police Force (Arusha) who clocked 1:04.28 while the third place went to a Kenyan Vincent Kimutai who spent 1:04.32. In women discipline, Shauri who in February last year broke the national half marathon record defeated Susy Chebet and V alentine Jepkorir, both from Kenya who clocked 1:16 .18 and 1:16 .51 to finish second and third respectively. Shauri broke the national half marathon record of 1:07 .59 1:07 .59 which was earlier held by Restituta Joseph, and her current record is 1:06 .37 which she set it in the Ras Al Khamaih race of Abu Dhabi. The 42km full marathon sponsored by Kilimanjaro Premium L ager was wholly dominated by Kenyan runners who have been doing it for many years. Kiplagat Kiplimo emerged the winner of the full marathon after clocking 2:16 .56 followed by his compatriots Abraham Too who penned 2:17.8 while the third overall winner was Bernard Kipchirchir who spent 2:18.02 to cover the 42km race. The women category of the 42km marathon was also a Kenyan affair. It was L ydia Wafula who won it for the second consecutive time, clocking 2:47.5 ahead of her country-mates Hosina Kiboino who spent 2:53.15 and Joan Rotich who posted 2:54.15 running time. 18th edition of the Kilimanjaro marathon was graced by the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism Hamisi Kigwangalla, who also participated in the 21 Half marathon backed by Tigo Tanzania. Kigwangalla was accompanied by the Minister responsible for Sports Harrison Mwakyembe and Kilimanjaro regional commissioner , Anna Mghwira who participated in the Grand Malt 5km fun run . Speaking after the race Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL ) group , Marketing Director, Doreen Tumubeebire said they are proud to see the marathon growing year after year which this time saw over 11,000 runners. On his side Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Tigo, who are the half marathon sponsors for five years said they are looking forward to improve the Kili Tigo half marathon race as they are fully committed to continue sponsoring the race. Other sponsors of the 18th edition of Kilimanjaro marathon included Grand Malt who backed 5km fun race, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Limited, Simba Cement, Unilever, Absa Bank Tanzania Limited others are Kibo Palace Hotel, Keys Hotel, Garda World Security, Precision Air and CMC Automobiles.