AS the global community grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic—which has spread to at least 177 countries with more than 723,869 cases and 34,000 deaths reported —the airline industry has been one of the first industries to have felt the economic impact of the novel coronavirus. When Africa’s flag carriers need help to recover—and they will need help—we must ensure that this crisis is also a chance to turn the page toward greater transparency as we rebuild. Though infection curves in Africa range from days to weeks behind outbreaks on other continents, airlines are canceling routes, laying off workers and warning that the worst is still to come. Since the first case was recorded, African airlines have lost $4.4 billion in revenue. Most recently, South African Airlines (SAA) suspended all international flights after closing its domestic network to restructure over financial difficulties last month. According to the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), a staggering one million jobs are being lost every day due to the economic effects of the pandemic. In the event, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) has asked governments to consider supporting airlines and airports struggling to survive through tax relief and loans, arguing that airlines will be essential to getting the world up and running again once the outbreak is over. For instance, the three biggest global airline alliances, oneworld, SkyTeam and Star Alliance, urged their governments to “evaluate all possible means” to assist the industry. They represent more than 58 of the world’s leading carriers. Some European airlines have already also issued urgent appeals for help. According to CAPA Centre for Aviation, a consultancy, most airlines in the world will be bankrupt by the end of May unless governments intervene. “Coordinated government and industry action is needed — now — if the catastrophe is to be avoided,” the firm said in a report published by CNN Business, recently. “Cash reserves are running down quickly as fleets are grounded, and what flights there are operate much less than half full,” it added. The scale of the deepening crisis was underscored also when Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier, Ryanair (RYAAY), said that it would ground most of its fleet in the next seven to 10 days. “In those countries where the fleet is not grounded, social distancing restrictions may make flying to all intents and purposes, impractical, if not, impossible,” the airline said, adding that it now expected to reduce seat capacity by 80 per cent for April and May, and could not rule out complete grounding of its fleet of 470 planes. On the same note, Lufthansa (DLAKY), which owns national carriers in Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Belgium, said the group’s airlines were in discussions with their respective governments about “receiving active government support should this become necessary.” One of its subsidiaries, Austrian Airlines, is temporarily suspending all flights starting March 19. The IATA is likely right about that and in an increasingly connected world, many of the fastest-growing industries depend on air travel, and key sectors like tourism will be critical to once more kick start domestic commercial revenue in African countries. For perhaps the first time, however, African airlines and associated vendors will need African governments as much as governments need airlines. The coronavirus pandemic will challenge everyone, and working together to contain both public health implications and far-reaching economic consequences will be essential in weeks and months to come. After the crisis is over, however, members of the public will have unprecedented leverage over the air travel industry. Airlines, airports and associated vendors will need public support, and we can demand accountability in exchange. Long queues due to security procedures at check-in, cramped seating, inconvenient schedules, poor service - the list of airline travelers’ complaints is a lengthy one- would not make travellers long to fly. It should also be noted that the perception that air travel is an ordeal makes it very difficult for airlines to charge higher fares that are necessary to return to profitability.