TANZANIA through Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) will be celebrating the African Day of Standardisation 2020 on Friday 20th March 2020. Like all other national standards’ bodies which are members of the African Organisation for Standardisation (ARSO), TBS celebrates ARSO Standardisation Day once a year within the week of 21st March. The African Day of Standardisation is celebrated as a means of raising more awareness among African Regulators, Industry, Academia, Consumers, Policy Makers and the entire African Citizens on the benefits of Standardization to Africa’s Industrialisation, Integration, Transformation and Sustainable Development. The celebration goes together with designed activities based on the theme of the year, which is approved by the ARSO Council and based on emerging issues of continental challenge. The theme for this year is titled “The role of Standardisation in resolving and addressing the socio-economic issues for the Refugees, Returnees and Internally Displaced Persons and creating durable Solutions to Forced Displacement in Africa.’’ Tanzania Bureau of Standards promoted the abovemention theme by conducting ARSO Day 2020 Essay Competition where the youth, Students from all Tanzania Mainland Universities were invited to write essays. It is expected that the essays so submitted discussed on how standardisation can be used as a tool in addressing socio-Economic and political challenges and emerging issues in Africa for sustainable development. Thus, standardisation is a way of putting in place practical solutions that are reproducible and harmonised, which could help host countries in their response to many of the issues they face when helping refugees. This applies to relief items, record management and documentation systems, engineering, environmental management, public policy, societal security and safety, water and sanitation services, all subjects which are at the heart of refugee problems and can be applied to mass evacuation and community resilience and quality of life. The winners will be announced and awarded various prizes during climax day including electronic devices, cash and certificate of recognition. In addition, the first three winners will be invited to participation to ARSO Day 2020 celebration which planned to take place during the ARSO General Assembly June 2020 in Kampala, Uganda. However, this year TBS planned to celebrate ARSO Day 2020 which will add value to TBS 45th Anniversary as the organisation was established 45 years ago under derived theme titled “The role of standardisation in promoting the made in Africa”. The discussion on designed national theme at climax of ARSO Day will focus on emphasizing the importance of standardization and conformity assessment in promoting the made (trade) in Africa and how standards helped SMEs to access African Market. This is in-line with the current national movement towards building a middle income termed as semi-industrialised economy by 2025. Before the climax, the theme will be delivered to the public as well in a period of one week starting from 16th- 20th March, 2020 through organized TV and Radio interviews, documentary, and use of social media such as Tweeter, Facebook, Instagram and blogs. Essentially, standards play an essential role in promoting quality, consistency and dependability across a vast array of industries, providing major benefits to the global economy and to the lives of people around the world. Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), a statutory organisation under the Ministry of Industry and Trade established in 1975 as the government agency given the mandate to promote the development and application of standards as well as conformity assessment processes. Throughout the years 1975-2020, TBS has been consistently serving the needs of the nation in accordance with its mandate. TBS in collaboration with its internal and external stakeholders committed to contributing to the new Government initiative by ensuring that the quality infrastructure; The application of standards with the appropriate systems of conformity assessment; Inspection, testing and certification performed become a reality for all sectors. It is our esteemed honor to acknowledge the work of the TBS management and committed staff members who have piloted the Bureau over the last 45 years through its early development and who have provided a solid foundation for the exciting and challenging road ahead. Hence, TBS welcoming all invited people from private and government institutions and general public to participate and be part of this important occasion. ● The Author Hamisi Sudi Tanzania Bureau of Standards Principal Standards Officer can be reached via 0754-999972/0737 777346.