THE much awaited International Tourism Fair Berlin (ITB) has been postponed following the coronavirus (COVID- 19) scare. Organisers of the furthermost business platform for global touristic offers have been compelled to cancel the world's largest tourism trade fair amidst rapid spread of the virus, which has seen more than 89,000 people infected to date. According to a press release posted in ITB’s website yesterday, Germany’s Ministry of Health and the Federal Ministry of Economics stated their opinion that ITB Berlin be cancelled in the wake of the killer virus. “The responsible health authority of the district of Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf in Berlin imposed significantly tighter restrictions on holding the event,” read part of the release. Among its requirements, the health authority stipulated that each participant would need to prove to Messe Berlin, which is the exhibition ground that they were not from a designated risk area or had not been in contact with a person or persons from a risk area. ”With more than 10,000 exhibitors from over 180 countries, ITB Berlin is extremely important for the world’s tourism industry. We take our responsibility for the health and safety of our visitors, exhibitors and employees very seriously. It is with a heavy heart that we must now come to terms with the cancellation of ITB Berlin 2020,” explained Dr Christian Göke, Messe Berlin’s Chief Executive Officer. Tanzania is among the few countries which was due to feature in the world’s Leading Travel Trade Show which was slated from March 10 to 14 this year. The country’s delegation was to be led by the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), with the Tanzania National Parks (Tanapa), Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) and the Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) also due to fly to Berlin for the expo which attracted 10,000 companies and organizations from 181 countries to exhibit their products and services to around 160,000 visitors, including 113, 500 trade visitor.