AS the country continues to intensify efforts against the spread of COVID- 19, public and private hospitals have been instructed to comply with the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children guidelines before transferring patients to referral hospitals. Minister for Health, Ms Ummy Mwalimu made the call in Dar es Salaam on Friday during a meeting with health experts to discuss the extent of COVID-19 infection in the country. As of Friday, the nation has not recorded new coronavirus case. “The guidelines include adherence to specific criteria to be followed by hospitals during outbreaks, including the hospital’s existing plans and capacity to cope with epidemics such as the implementation of measures to protect staff, patients and visitors from infection,” she noted. Ms Mwalimu stressed that the government will continue to provide education and accurate information to the public on how to protect themselves from coronavirus, its symptoms and the real state of the disease in the country. “The public should be aware that not every flu is coronavirus, therefore they are advised to take into account the information provided by relevant authorities,” she noted. In the meeting, they advised media to use health professionals from the ministry of health and its agencies as well as Regional Chief Medical Officers to ensure that the content and awareness of the disease is precise. The minister urged Tanzanians to continue ignoring false information circulating in social media provided by some people who are interested in distorting the realities of coronavirus in the country. The ministry has also provided a toll-free number 0800110037 or 0800110124 for the public to use whenever they have questions or concerns about the virus. Meanwhile, the ministry has formed a team of 12 experts to tackle the coronavirus threat in the country. The team will first and foremost raise awareness among the public on how individuals could protect themselves against contracting the deadly virus, and will also offer services to those infected and ensure they do not transmit the Covid-19 to others. Among the team includes Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programme experts who will raise awareness on hand washing.