YOUNG Africans’ one goal victory over Simba on Sunday marks the end of their three seasons without a win against their traditional soccer rivals. And, going by past history between the two sides, this could easily mark the beginning of Yanga’s dominance. The one goal victory could, outwardly be considered as a small victory, but make no mistakes, in the next encounter, Simba are likely to go down by heavier defeat if they don’t work on their problems! Yanga may not have, historically done better than Simba in the past international tournaments, but their victory on Sunday will give them more confidence going forward in their future derbies. And conversely, Simba’s defeat will reduce, quite considerably, their confidence in their future encounters against their traditional soccer rivals, confidence they had had in the last three years. Simba’s defeat on Sunday was marked by the club’s failure, in their last encounter when their two goal lead was overturned, hence allowing Yanga back to the game and brought it the two all draw. Derby matches between the two clubs are usually not based on the ability to play but rather on which team, between the two, is better prepared, psychologically, than the other. When Yanga spoke of beating Simba on Sunday, they based their prediction on the last match in which their team had fought from two goals down to a two all draw. For Yanga the question as the derby day approached was, if we could fight back from a two goal down to a draw, why shouldn’t we beat them this time around? Losing a two goal advantage means that your defence is suspect. And failing to equalize after going down by a lone goal as in the 43rd minute of the first means you have a problem with your strikers. Historically, no team in Simba, Yanga derby wins a match when it starts sluggishly as was Simba demonstrated on Sunday. Therefore, the more psychologically a team is prepared in Simba, Yanga derbies, the more likely such a team will have an edge over another in the derby. Yanga was better prepared, psychologically, than Simba on Sunday, hence their victory against their soccer arch rivals after a three year hiatus. But Yanga now need to transfer the confidence they demonstrated against their arch rivals on Sunday to other teams by winning all their remaining ten league matches. Again, they need to do that now because past history shows that whoever beats another in a derby tends to perform badly in other subsequent matches in the league. Therefore, Yanga need to avoid falling into such a trap which is usually a result of over-confidence after beating an arch rival in a derby match. More often than not, the loser tends to do well in subsequent matches and this has sometimes led to leadership crisis. Going by Yanga’s sterling performance on Sunday, they have a very good team and they now only need to work hard on their players so that they can do better in other remaining matches in the league. I’m quite sure Yanga will do well to qualify for the CAF tournament and with the team they have they should do well in such a tournament. But they need to work extremely hard if they want to do better because on the paper, Simba have still better players. For Simba, instead of wasting time brooding over their defeat, they need to look critically at what led to their defeat against their arch rivals on Sunday. Could it be because they were over-confident or could it be that most of their players are, as once noted by Jamhuri Kiwhelo, have gone past their peak? Simba are still the reigning league champions and are likely to retain the league. But their Sunday loss does not reflect the quality of a reigning champion who is about to retain the league title. Therefore, those are some of the problems Simba need to work on. It is also not bad for them to start scouting for new, homegrown players instead of over-reliance on foreign players. Of course, it’s not bad to go for foreign players. But it is better to spend a lot of money on few but very strong foreign players instead of getting nine, worthless foreign players. Yanga also need to do the same thing. They also need to scout for good, local talent. When they go for foreign players, it should only be to get players that are not available locally. Both Simba and Yanga need to consider the following. If a club can spare, say 100,000 US dollars in buying say between six and seven foreign players and pay each player between 4,000 and 6,000 US dollars per month, why not spend the same amount of money in buying between three and four top foreign players and pay each over 7,000 US dollars per months? When a club does the second option, it would get quality foreign players. Sometimes it is better to give the foreign coach the opportunity of scouting for the foreign players he wants instead of allowing some people within the team to do the job. Simba and Yanga teams will understand me better because both have suffered quite considerably through the expenditure of fortune to buy second rate players whose performance is not different from locally based players.