THE earthquake which had hit parts of Tanga Region Saturday night was an ordinary geological occurrence, the Geological Survey of Tanzania (GST) reveals. A Senior Geologist with GST, Mr Gabriel Mbogoni told the Daily News over the phone that such tremors are usually caused by the geological natural forces. “They may occur as a result of human activities and in such circumstances cannot be controlled, because they are not predictable. Take the incident at Maramba in Tanga at a magnitude of 4.9 with no considerable felt effects,” said Mr Mbogoni who also assume the role of Head of Geological Hazard Unit. He pointed out that similar quakes usually occur in villages, bushes, and elsewhere any day, adding that some may be felt on the ground surface, but others pass without being noticed underground. According to him, the Maramba tremor occurred 13 Km deep within the earth’s surface, adding that at times it could penetrate as far as 700 Km down. Much as the quake had hit 13 Km deep, the authorities did not notice and communicate any negative impacts in the areas. According to Mr Mbogoni, their equipment can allow them to detect any possible earthquake’s occurrence within the country, but rarely communicate to prevent fear and shock in the public. He cited Kigoma quake in 2010 that occurred with no damages at the epicenter, but whose impact was felt at PPF Tower building in Dar es Salaam. In a related development, the regional authorities allayed fears of the earthquake, saying it caused no property damage and human casualties. However, the seismic activity that was experienced between 3:39pm and 3:50pm at different parts of the region caused some of the residents to panic. Commenting, Tanga Regional Police Commander Edward Bukombe told ‘Sunday News’ that by yesterday, still no damage or casualty was reported in its relation. The tremor was firstly noticed in Kilindi and Handeni districts, before it spread to other areas of Korogwe, Lushoto, Muheza and Tanga Municipalities. “I have heard about the earthquake hitting various parts of the region, but to be honest, no any bad news was reported to my office. I want to assure you that we will continue making a follow up and release any information gathered,” he said. On his part, Tanga District Commissioner Thobias Mwilapwa acknowledged to have heard of the tremor in some parts of Tanga city and environs. “I have the information about the earthquake in my district especially in Makorora, Mzingani, Majengo, Kiomoni, Maweni and Pongwe Wards, but not in Raskazone,” he added. In Handeni District, the Chama cha Mapinduzi(CCM) Chairman, Athumani Malunda also confirmed that the presence of the tremor for almost a minute. In Lushoto, it was experienced in Bumbuli, Mlalo, Mlola, Magamba and Korogwe, Muheza and some parts of Mkinga District