A SPECIAL operation in Dar es Salaam region has netted 81 illegal migrants from Burundi, Mozambique, Malawi and Kenya nations. The aliens were arraigned at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, charged with two counts of unlawful presence and illegal entry in the U nited Republic of Tanzania. The foreigners include 6 3 Burundians, 10 Mozambique nationals, seven Malawians and one Kenyan. Eight of them are women. They were charged alongside one Tanzanian, Mohamed Mbise, who is accused of harbouring a Burundian. Before magistrates Rashid Chaungu, Janeth Mtega and Vick Mwaikambo in different court chambers, seven of the foreigners pleaded guilty. The court eventually convicted them on their own plea of guilty and were subsequently sentenced to either pay 500,000/- fine or go to jail for one year. None of them could pay the fine and were ordered to start serving the jail term. The rest of the accused persons denied the charges and were granted bail on condition of securing two reliable sureties each. Every surety, according to the set bail conditions, was required to sign a bond of one million shilling. None of them met the set bail condition. Magistrates adjourned the cases to March 19, 2020 for mention as investigations are going on. Officers of the Immigration Departments Sitta Shija and Godfrey Ngwijo told the court that all accused persons committed the offences on March 3, 2020 at different places in Dar es Salaam. The prosecution alleged that the accused persons were found living in the city without having any permit that allows them to do so. They were also found to have entered the U nited Republic of Tanzania without having any valid pass that entitled them to do so. Late last year, the Dar es Salaam’s Regional Commissioner(RC) Paul Makonda announced a plan to carry out door-to-door searches and registration of alleged immigrants in the country’s commercial capital after they were blamed for spiking in crimes. The RC instructed ward, council and district leaders to work with immigration and national security officials to enforce his directive. Mr Makonda accused illegal aliens of misusing state resources and taking over jobs and education opportunities meant for Tanzanians. The issue of illegal immigrants has been a thorny one in Tanzania. Authorities say illegal aliens endanger the country’s social and economic stability and pose a security risk.