THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in Manyara is holding a senior mining official with the Simanjiro District for allegedly soliciting a 5m/-bribe from Tanzanite One Mining Limited official. Mr Daudi Ntalima was arrested on March 3 by officers of the anti-corruption watchdog while trying to solicit money from one of the directors of the mining company in the Northern region. PCCB’s Head in Manyara region Mr Holle Makungu confirmed the arrest of Mr Ntalima, saying the suspect was detained at the regional central police station, pending his appearance in court. According to Mr Holle, the beleaguered mining officer had contravened with article 15 of the Anti-Corruption Act of 2007. He further alleged that the mining firm, had for some time now, suspended the excavation and extraction of the precious gemstones in Mirerani as it engaged the government on the possible review of mining contracts in the pits. “The officer is believed to have taken advantage of such a loophole to ask for bribe from Tanzanite One bosses,” alleged the PCCB regional head. According to Holle, the accused had allegedly issued threats to Tanzanite One top officials as a blackmail to secure the bribe. “He is alleged to have told the top officers of the mining firm that he was in possession of their mining contracts and that the fate of Tanzanite One Company was in his hands,” offered the anticorruption Czar. But senior officials with the Mining firm wouldn’t easily give in to the district mining officer’s threats and advances, prompting the latter to issue a public notice, barring six top Tanzanite One Mining officers from accessing the Mirerani Hills mines or conducting any mineral related activity without his consent, said Mr Holle. In a notice to the public issued on March 1 and seen by this paper, Mr Ntalima barred six senior officials of the mining firm from gaining access through the 24 kilometre-long wall, erected around the Mirerani gemstone mines in Simanjiro District in Manyara region. Those mentioned in the public notice include a prominent gem trader, director and shareholder with Tanzanite One Mining Ltd, Mr Faisal Juma Shahbhai and co director Hussein Gonga. Others are Abubakari Lombe, the firm’s Chief Security Officer, Thomas Mollel who is the company’s supervisor, Heri Elisemahe Msuya and Baraka Msongo. Mr Ntalima is due to appear in court once investigation on the matter is complete.