THE Universal Communications Access Fund (UCSAF) yesterday signed a 1bn/-support package with the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) to increase radio coverage with the audio quality and audacity in five regions in the country. The signing ceremony for increased radio coverage quality and audacity was signed by TBC Director General, Dr Ayub Rioba, and UCSAF Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Justina Mashiba. Ms Mashiba said the Ibn/-had been issued to the national broadcaster to increase radio coverage in border areas of Kyela, Ngara, Ludewa, Mlimba and Ruangwa. She said what they had done was to ensure every Tanzania had access to communication for better undertakings of their economic activities and improved welfare. “Tanzania is a big country whose areas are diversified, thus making communication access a challenge. UCSAF has been offering support in collaboration with the private sector to make communication available to everyone,” said Ms Mashiba. She expressed UCSAF commitment to reaching all wards so that they had access to communication. Ms Mashiba called for taking care of telecommunications infrastructure and assured the responsible communities of continuing access to communication. For his part, Dr Rioba thanked UCSAF for support, saying it had helped to increase coverage in areas which most of them were connected with frequencies and signals from neighbouring countries. “When I joined TBC the audience coverage was 54 per cent. After a number of engagements and support we are now at 74 per cent,” said Dr Rioba. He promised increased national broadcaster coverage by setting up studio and infrastructure for radio access to people in the selected areas. “Coverage in regions bordering neighbouring countries was a big challenge, while others have to access radio programmes from nearby or countries close to them or no coverage at all,” said the TBC director general. Dr Rioba said UCSAF had been a key partner in communication access since it had supported projects for Arusha and Dodoma studios.