VODACOM Tanzania has pledged to support the society efforts to fight the spread of corona virus in the country. “Helping to address societal challenges, such as those posed by COVID-19, is part of Vodacom’s broader commitment to create a social contract with its stakeholders,” Managing Director of Vodacom Tanzania, Hisham Hendi has said. He said the weeks and months ahead will require collective effort to assist government as it works to cope with additional pressures brought on by COVID-19. Vodacom’s priority is the health and safety of it’s over 560 employees while continuing to connect, deliver services and support its over 14 million customers to remain confidently connected through this period. “Vodacom can play a critical role in supporting the society during this time. We are rolling out our business continuity plans during this rapidly evolving situation,” he said. Tanzanians can rest assured that they will remain connected to their friends and families and that businesses can continue to run using remote working tools through Vodacom network should the need arise. At the same time, Hendi said Vodacom is ramping up efforts to support learners with out of school digital learning materials using the globally accredited Khan Academy curriculum. “Now children who find themselves out of school for an extended period of time can continue learning for free, despite measures in place to mitigate the potential spread of the virus,” he noted. Vodacom has well-developed business continuity plan for dealing with events of this nature, including co-ordinated regional and international incident management, response plans and the increased ability for Vodacom employees to work remotely without disruption. “We have given extensive advice to staff and contractors to help minimise the spread of COVID-19 as well as activated hygiene protocols at our places of work,” he added. “We have a dedicated COVID-19 team working to maintain the level of service our customers expect from us, and we have made available various digital offerings to support enterprise clients. The company’s day-to-day operations will continue and should not be affected during this period. The data, voice and connectivity services that we offer will allow customers to stay connected especially for those in social isolation. “We emphasize our willingness and commitment to assist government efforts, and will continue to do whatever we can to help,” he explained. 