SINCE, corona virus outbreak appeared towards the end of last year, there has been a bizarre variance amongst critics and especially amongst economist trying to predict what coronavirus might mean to us and especially for financial markets and the economy realm across the world. Without going into conspiracy theories about origin of coronavirus outbreak that as quoted in the media and even discussed in scientific paper that have suggested the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 emerged from a cell originated in a virology lab in Wuhan, China. My main concern is that the virus is here and certainly its speeding nature is distracting the normal universally way of life. While there is no cure yet, assumptions remains in the discourse as quoted in the media and social media comprises the possibility that the virus was bioengineered in the lab or that a lab employee was infested while holding a bat and then transmitted the disease to others outside the lab, argument that isn’t main focus of my thought today, instead, trying to go beyond what caused the disease and focus more on what is expected to be the economic effects of the spread of this virus? Many of us might not be aware of the scale of the disease, but closely viewing at it, is that China’s economic growth currently viewed as world production power house is anticipated to slow to 4.5 percent in the first quarter of 2020 as compared to 6 percent in the previous quarter, the slowest pace as reported in the media to be low since the financial crisis. Centred on China economic growth drivers analysis, in my judgment this will be the slowest speed since the last famous last financial crisis that hit the world. Slow growth in China further signals hit on global oil demand caused by the fact that factories in China to avoid widespread may either shutdown or slow the flow of products processes or running their factories at full capacity to generate profit for their shareholders and pay for the loans. International Energy Agency report estimates that oil demand for China is expected to fall by 435,000 barrels yearon- year in the first quarter of 2020, the first quarterly contraction in more than 10 years. This falling demand will create shortage of products and parts from China and will affect companies around the world, as factories contemplating on resuming production after the Lunar New Year and also as workforces stays at home to minimise or reduce the spread of the virus. In fact, I am of the opinion that businesses when posting their first quota financial performances will reveal the true picture caused by lost revenue and disrupted supply chains due to China’s factory shutdowns, that in a way might send tens of millions of people out of work at least for short-term. In actual fact,with many enterprises and countries depending on the health of China’s economy as off takers of their raw material and power production house of goods and services traded globally, the outbreak is sending ripples around the world that wouldn’t spare our region. As world manufacturing power house most of the manufacturers in electronics, machines parts and pharmaceuticals and even travel and tourism industries travel alert will not only hit China, but even hit us early on by economic disruption from the epidemic. Caused by the spread of the coronavirus, people in the channels of global commerce logistics and supply chain executives, travel industry amateurs, businesses large and small should abreast themselves of substantial disruptions to their businesses given no solution yet has been found. Although financial markets and most economic forecasters estimated the virus outbreak wouldn’t do much harm to the economy and corporate profits, my opinion is that in the middle of coronavirus, two drivers will be pondered on earnings. One, decelerating business top-line growth in combination with the slowdown in the economic cycle, two, falling profit margins, driven by a mix of cost pressures and operational gearing. As financial markets fight impact of the coronavirus eruption and return of corporate earnings growth, experts as cited in the media are of the opinion that in last year i.e. 2019, stock market prices partially used to signal health economic status of a nation rose notwithstanding anaemic earnings growth. When examined critically, it turned out that such growth was motivated by a rise in valuations that happened in two levels. One, the strong rise in global price/earnings multiples attained between January and April added some 15 percent to equity returns, and two, mostly represented by a recovery from the late 2018 equity sell off. Amidst what coronavirus might mean to financial markets trading and the economy realm across the world, consensus of analyst estimates shows earnings growth may well pick up, to around 10 percent globally in 2020, and the major equity regions are expected to show profits growth close to that level. I might be wrong, but I do believe that when China’s economy slows down, we as region and particularly with businesses and trading ties with China we will feel impacted even though not as much as countries that are near the source of the virus. The outbreak of a new virus that initiated in the central- Chinese city of Wuhan is likely in my opinion to slow China’s economic growth in the near term and this slow certainly could most of its trading partners around the world. At present devoid of counting on reported statistics and data, because numbers don’t lie, the potential effects of the spread of the coronavirus, which has sickened more people in China, Italy Lombardy region that include Milan, Iraq, Greece, South America, and France to mention a few and numerous killed number of people, who could have been alive today,if hadn’t affected the virus. While it might be too early to say what the extent of the impact on Tanzania or East Africa region will be it is a noteworthy thing which will have some sound effects on the Chinese economy, at least in the short term but in long term on our region. Whether we like it or not, China’s economy is very vital in the world-wide economy now and when China’s economy slow down we do feel that not as much though as nations that are near China, or that trade more vigorously with China, like some of the Western European countries does. For info, as China grapples with the COVID-19, major airlines comprising British Airways, United Airlines and Lufthansa are cutting or suspending flights while at the same-time tourists are cancelling trips, and businesses such as apple and Starbucks are cautionary of the potential impact on their supply chains and sales. As of 27th February 2020, VOA/AFP sources indicate that deaths reported are on increase. Iran, 14, South Korea 10, Italy 7, Japan 4, China 2,666, Philippines 1, Taiwan 1, and France 1. Confirmed cases however are: China, 77,779, Japan 853, south Korea 977, Italy 229, Singapore 90, Iran 64, US 53, Thailand 37, Taiwan, 31, Australia 22, Malaysia 22, German 16, Vietnam, 16, UAE 13, Britain 15, France 12, Canada 10, Bahrain 8, Kuwait 8, Israel 6, India 3, Philippine 3, Spain 3, Austria 2, Oman 2, Russia 2 Afghanistan 1, Belgium 1, Cambodia 1, Croatia 1, Finland 1, Iraq 1, Lebanon 1, Nepal 1, Sri Lanka 1 and Sweden 1. Moody’s analysts report released recently indicates that the coronavirus is likely to have the largest negative impact on goods and services sectors within and outside China that rely on Chinese consumers and intermediary products and it is on this context our region will also be impacted. Moody’s experts and others have pointed out that China now accounts for a bigger share of global economic growth now, and the world is more closely connected.