MENTAL Health Association of Tanzania (MEHATA), has over the weekend awarded 15 women from Tap Elderly Women’s Wisdom for Youth (TEWWY), as appreciation of their work to serve people with mental illness. The move was part of International Day commemorations where, MEHATA Chairperson, Dr Isaac Lema who is also Psychologist said that the awarded women have been playing a big role, especially on provision of regular public education and counseling on health problems. “They are really serving the society and rescue lives of people, mostly those with depression problems. Mental illness is a huge problem that needs more education to let a person know exactly what is wrong with him/her,” he pointed out. The Psychologist further said that indirect statistics showed that depression kind of mental illness is one of the problems, which have been to larger percentage affecting the society. Expounding, Dr Lema said that, the problem (depression) usually leads into sadness, lack of peace in mind, insomnia, and refusal to associate with people as well as suicide attempts. “Despite lack of direct statistics, a larger percentage of people are currently suffering from this kind of mental illness. It is believed that four out of five people are facing such a problem,” he insisted, stressing that: “As an association, they were proud to have awarded the women for the contribution, as a move towards reducing the depression’s impacts.” However, he advised the public to routinely prefer health-checkups on regular basis, as depression is seriously affecting many and hence, better to have timely treatments. On her part, TEWWY Counselor, Ms Grace Mshanga called upon the government to have special groups, specifically for public awareness campaigns so as to reduce mental illnessrelated deaths and problems. TEWWY has only 15 centers in Dar es Salaam region, hence, the groups will back-up government’s efforts and go beyond (Dar es Salaam) to serve all Tanzanians. “There are people of different ages in marriage, and young people who are addicted to drugs or alcohol. They need counseling to help them avoid suicidal attempts and other mental illness-related impacts,” she said. Commenting, TEWWY Executive Director, Ms Rustica Tembele advised the parents, especially women to stick to parental responsibilities so as to let their youth avoid engaging in any kind of moral decay, including drug abuse. In addition, she said that parental care has lots of contribution towards meeting the national goals of promoting the industrial economy, noting: “The time has now come for the community to wake up and prevent these health problems, because they have been more harmful to the society than HIV/Aids.”