THE Former Young Africans coach Mwinyi Zahera has picked Bernard Morrison, Papy Tshishimbi and Lamine Moro as the best players so far in Yanga squad who are helping a lot to lift up the team. Yanga still occupy the third slot on the Mainland Premier League table with 51 points from 27 matches, one point above the fourth-placed Namungo FC who have 50 points after 28 outings. Despite being in the race for the championship, the club announced recently that their main focus is to win the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC),  as a guarantee to enable them feature in the CAF Confederation Cup. But speaking recently via a telephone interview, Zahera named the trio as competitive players in the team who are contributing much towards the team’s remarkable performance this season. “Tshishimbi is now regaining his momentum at the club while Morrison is also another important player in the team and I knew him a long time before even before he joined Yanga. Moro is too a reliable asset in the team,” Zahera said. Asked as to whether he has received coaching offers from any top flight team in the country, the DR Congo coach replied that no club has shown interest to get him so far. “I don’t have any information from a club which is willing to hire my services and I have not received any phone call in that regard,” Zahera said. However, Zahera insisted that motivation to players does not come from financial support saying a player can commit himself 100 percent even without getting anything. “A player is capable to produce remarkable performance not because of what he has received but rather physiology of players does that. Sometimes, players may be promised huge sums of money but end up losing the game simply because motivation is not money,” said he. He then narrated that all financial help he was providing at the club was due to his love and that there is no law in the world which prevent coaches from assisting their teams. In a related development, Yanga and Simba ex-striker Amis Tambwe disclosed that he used to make a lot of money during the time he served the two clubs at different periods from their passionate supporters across the country. “At Yanga, I got many things. For instance, whenever I managed to score against Simba, I used to go home with not less than 2m/-all of that from fans donation,” he said. He then named some players he enjoyed playing with at Simba like Ramadhani Singano, Jonas Mkude and Amri Kiemba saying they were feeding him with good balls to score goals. From Yanga squad, Tambwe named Haruna Niyonzima, Mbuyu Twite, Juma Abdul, Simon Msuva and Papy Tshishimbi insisting that he enjoyed playing with them. He then cautioned fans to stop booing their own players saying that tendency end up discouraging them. “It sounds good for a supporter of the opposite team to boo a player from the other team and not his own side,” Tambwe urged.