LEGAL technicalities have saved a senior citizen, Shaibu Nalinga, from spending the rest of his life behind bars for raping his granddaughter aged six years. Court of Appeals Justices Augustine Mwarija, Mwanaisha Kwariko and Lugano Mwandambo ruled in favour of the appellant after allowing an appeal he had lodged to fault findings of both High Court and trial District Court. “We allow the appeal, quash the conviction and set aside the sentence meted out against the appellant. We order his immediate release from prison unless his continued incarceration is related to other lawful cause,” they declared. The justices noted that during the trial, the magistrate received evidence of the alleged victim of rape without taking oath and nothing more, including promising to speak the truth and not to tell lies as required under the Law of Evidence Act. “That promise should have been reflected in the proceedings. This was not the case since the trial court just received (the victim’s) evidence without oath with nothing more. This was a fatal irregularity which vitiated (the victim’s) evidence,” they said. According to the justices, the evidence of the alleged victim which was taken contrary to the law lacks evidential value and proceeded to discard from the record. Having expunged such evidence, they ruled that the remaining evidence was not sufficient to sustain the appellant’s conviction. The justices also pointed out that as rightly pointed out by the prosecution, the evidence of the grandmother was hearsay, while that of the doctor only proved that the alleged victim was sexually assaulted but did not prove who the perpetrator was. Formerly, the appellant was charged at the District Court of Mtwara with the offence of rape. The appellant was accused of having carnal knowledge of his granddaughter, a girl aged six years, between October 11 and 25, 2016 at Magomeni area within the Municipality and region of Mtwara. At the end of the trial, the appellant was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. His appeal before the High Court was dismissed for lack of merit. Still aggrieved, the appellant decided to take the matter to the Court on a second appeal. At the material time, the wife of the appellant was working as a security guard and sometimes she was having night shifts. Whenever she was out on night duty, the appellant used to sleep on the same bed with the young girl. However, on October 24, 2016 , the grandmother noticed some changes on the girl as she was even losing weight. She tried to inquire the cause behind the changes but in vain. On November 5, 2016 the mother returned home and in the course of bathing her, the victim complained of chest and neck pains. Not only that, but when she poured water in her private parts, the daughter raised alarms and refused to go on with the bathing. Upon further inspection, the mother found wounds around the victim’s secret parts. That is when the young girl spilled the beans as she revealed that the appellant had been having sexual intercourse with her whenever her grandmother was on night shifts and used to threaten and cover her mouth to prevent her from raising any alarm. Upon that revelation, the appellant threatened to divorce his wife if she persisted with the accusations. He even refused to give his wife money for taking the girl to hospital. However, in the end, the mother took the girl to hospital where she was found to have been sexually abused.