CRDB Bank has become the first financial institution to donate money to fight against novel coronavirus in the country. The bank yesterday donated 30m/- to Medical Association of Tanzania (MAT) to assist combating the pandemic where the country has registered 12 cases so far. CRDB Managing Director Abdulmajid Nsekela said the donation goes direct for special awareness campaign to stop the further spread of virus. He said various institutions should join hands with the government and medics to educate the public on preventing measures that will limit further spread and sweep away the deadly virus. The MAT campaign is ‘TunawezaKujikinga’ loosely translating to ‘we can protect ourselves’ against the virus. “CRBD has already taken various measures to protect its staff and customers including putting hand sanitiser at our offices and ATMs,” Mr Nsekela said. The Bank boss thanked the ministry of health and MAT for working closely with them on educating staff on measures supposed to be taken to prevent the virus spread. MAT President Dr Elisha Osati promised that the 30m/- will be directed to the intended purpose for educating public health workers starting from primary health services in identifying corona victims and timely measures to be taken. “Our responsibility is to make sure that doctors, nurses and all health workers are well educated on how to fight this disease. “If we are able to achieve this, it will help us to further spread this knowledge to many citizens and thus completely prevent the disease causes by Coronavirus,” Dr Osati said while calling for others to imitate CRDB gesture. Dr Osati said the education exercise has begun in Dar es Salaam and is conducted jointly with Tanzania Medical Student Association (TAMSA). The soft ceremony of handing over 30m/- to MAT was accompanied by a proper hand-washing exercise demonstration led by Mr Nsekela, Dr Osati and MAT Secretary General Dr Lilian Mnabwiru. Proper handwashing remains number one tip for preventing the spread of COVID-19. However, it must be done properly and with soap and water and the next best option is to use an alcohol-based hand sanitiser.