GOVERNMENT said it is keen to resolve existing conflict at the Athletics Tanzania (AT) so that they can positively contribute to the smooth running of sports in the country. This was said recently by the Director of Sports in the Ministry for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Yusuph Singo who insisted that all the required procedures to bring peace at the athletics body are progressing well. “One of the measures put forward by the responsible minister of sports Harrison Mwakyembe was to urge the AT to modify its constitution and as of now, the National Council of Sports has set up a special team to look into the newly proposed constitution,” he said. He added that they have managed to settle disputes in various sports bodies in the country as such, they will use the same measures to solve the uncertainty at AT. Moreover, Singo said Tanzania is on standby just waiting the continent’s football governing body CAF to announce when the major football competitions like AFCON and CHAN will resume after halting them due to the outbreak of coronavirus. “Now, the most important thing is to thoroughly observe what the state said after suspending all sports activities for a period of 30 days and thereafter, we will also hear from them about the way forward,” he said. Furthermore, Singo disclosed that government is collaborating well with various sports governing bodies across the country to ensure that everything moves accordingly especially during this period of Covid-19 eruption. Again, Singo encouraged sports men and women in the country to continue doing individual training sessions throughout the suspension time for them to be in good shape when the sports activities will be resumed. However, recently, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) revealed that when the league recommences, they will allow matches to be played in closed doors until when fully satisfied that the threat of coronavirus is completely defeated. Immediately after the suspension of the Mainland Premier League, many teams had to break up their camps as a precaution to prevent further spread of the virus which is affecting many people around the world.