STATISTICS show a worrying trend of juvenile sex offenses in Rukwa Region where a total of 33 young offenders have been arraigned over the past one year. The culprits were charged with committing several crimes including rape, impregnating school girls and engaging in unnatural offences. Rukwa Regional Prosecutor, Mr Saraja Iboru disclosed this to the ‘Daily News’ during an exclusive interview held here yesterday, saying the boys were nabbed between 2019 and early this year. According to Mr Iboru, in 2019, 31 boys were arraigned into juvenile court while two others have appeared in the same court this year. He stated that in 2019, the juvenile court in the region sentenced a boy to serve two years in juvenile jail after being found guilty of grave sexual abuse. Also the same court gave five boys conditional discharge after being found guilty of raping and impregnating several school girls. He further explained that six juvenile cases are on different stages of hearing; Out of them four are for rape and two for impregnating school girls. Mr Iboru explained that this year, two boys have been arraigned into juvenile court for raping and the investigation into the matter is underway. In another incident, a standard six boy aged 14 years old in Nkasi District has been arrested and arraigned into juvenile court for allegedly impregnating a Form One student aged 16 years old. Nkasi District Police Commanding Officer (OCD), Mr David Mtasya confirmed this, hinting that the boy was arraigned in juvenile court in Namanyere early last month. Expounding the OCD explained further that the boy is among nine secondary school boys who have been arrested and arraigned into juvenile court between January and February this year for allegedly impregnating teenage school girls. Mr Mtasya made such revelation during a second quarter meeting held here in the small town of Namanyere over the weekend which was prepared and coordinated by Grace Community Development &Education (GCDE) funding by Foundation for Civil Society ((FCS) . The GCDE is implementing a one-year project aimed at fighting against child abuse and early pregnancy at four wards of Nkomolo, Chala, Namanyere and Nkandasi in Nkasi District. “This year between January and February eight students have been arrested and arraigned into court for allegedly impregnating teenage school girls among them is a standard six pupil aged 14 years old....their cases are held in camera” he further explained. The latest available statistics show that from last year to February this year 166 cases of teenage school pregnancies have been reported to police stations among them 104 are for secondary school girls while MS Samia primary schools are 12 cases.