NATIONAL cricket team completed the series in Zimbabwe against Rhinos, where they lost 4-2 but Head Coach Steve Tikolo said there are lots of positives to take from the tour. The national team pitched a seven-day camp in Harare, where they played six T-20 buildup matches against Rhinos at Kwekwe Sports Club. The series were part of practice for the team ahead of the 2020 ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Africa Qualifiers, whose fate remains in balance due to wide spread of coronavirus across the world. The qualification event is scheduled to be staged in South Africa from April 25th to May 4th this year but due to the current coronavirus outbreak the International Cricket Association (ICC) is likely to announce postponement of the event. “I’m pleased to get the opportunity to come here at Kwekwe; It has been a good series despite the 4-2 defeat. I wanted to gauge my players’ ability, especially in game situations and I have noted areas that we need to improve. “The players are talented but it is our responsibility as a team-- technical staff and players to keep working hard during matches and trainings. We need to give it 100 per cent always. “When you look at how we played here, I’m happy that there were times when our team controlled the game but sometimes they slowed down and lost the game. When we keep playing such build up matches, we will keep improving and gain much experience. “In general, I’m happy with the series and the training stint here and I’m convinced with time we will improve,” said the former Kenyan international cricketer. Team Skipper Riziki Kiseto said; “The series gave us a befitting challenge and we appreciate the coaching staff because each player played at least two or three matches… we lost but tried to push for win. “Regardless, we have taken some valuable lessons our opponents are no doubt above us and boost good training facilities. We know as players that we made some mistakes and the coach has noted them and hopefully we will improve before the qualifiers,” Kiseto said. In their final series game yesterday, Tanzania beat Rhinos by three wickets. On his side, the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) Information Officer, Atif Salim said the series has given much needed exposure to the players, who are playing under a newest up.