ELECTIONS belong to the people. It’s their decision. If they decide to turn their back on and burn their behinds, then they will just have to sit on their blisters, said Abraham Lincoln, an American statesman and lawyer who served as the 16th president of the United States. I think Lincoln spoke very well especially during his time when he was providing leadership and led the nation through its greatest moral, constitutional, and political crisis in the American Civil War. This wisdom was very much needed then, as it is today, and especially for the coming elections in my country. Unlike previous elections, I expect 2020 Tanzania general election to be unique in many ways. This I stand for because Tanzania’s fifth government under Hon President John Joseph Magufuli has, in my view, shaped, fashioned, and produced a rather new political culture and a certain positive voters’ motivation we have never seen before. I will explain. The political culture I am reflecting on is already, by and large, beginning to determine the nature of what we should expect in the coming electoral competition. The motivation or a culture that as a nation we can determine our bright future. The election shall therefore, if I may forecast, favour politicians who care or cared a lot about wananchi and the public interest at large. This election will not be about the commonly used campaign manoeuvres built on opportunistic actions by politicians. It will be about whether the outgoing leader was available and dared to stand up for his or her people or not. It will be about value questions which helped a leader to make decision based on values. It will be about leaders who resolutely and consistently dreamed and were asking themselves how well their constituent is. It will be about how MPs and others understood progress and are now able to clearly indicate what has been gained during their tenure and what has been lost and are now asking to be re-elected so that they complete their mission. Given the tone of what we see happening, it will be very difficult for opportunistic politicians to oppose efficient policies so as to damage the reputation of their competitors in the elections. I reiterate, it will be very difficult. And we are already beginning to see the move and shift. People are now questioning where their MPs were during the last five years. Interestingly, evidence is emerging which supports the old wise saying given by Richard Austen Butler, a British Conservative statesman who once said; in politics you must always keep running with the pack. The moment that you falter and they sense that you are injured, the rest will turn on you like wolves. Tanzanians wanted change and transformation they see now. So, I really look forward to an amazing paradigm shift in elections this year. The electoral competition among our political leaders will be based on competence and in how much those we elected back in 2015 cared about and what they perceive as the public interest relative to the private rents from being in office. This coming election, if may project, will be interesting and attention grabbing. It may not necessarily require voters to make an effort to search and collect dispersed information on what any outgoing representative responded to issues at stake in their constituents. Given JPM’s constant reminder to his people that Tanzania is rich and we can do a lot with what we have, and the reality on the ground seen in the ongoing projects across the country all aiming at making Tanzanians enjoy high standard of living, and quality of life, sound health and well-being, I will not be surprised to see many incumbents dropped only because theirs has not been about people’s agenda. What I see, this time voters’ motivation will be grounded on the tone the fifth government has set over the past five years. This tone has already led voters to want to look at the things which are seen and not those things which are not seen. I am not teaching my members of parliament, but I want to let them know that this time it will be hard-hitting. As they approach their voters, they should be prepared therefore, not only to utter simple answers, but should make a defence to anyone in their constituents who will ask them for a reason for them to be re-elected. I think the only best answer should be to show their voters tangible things they did during their tenure. And with this approach they should be very careful. They should do this with gentleness and respect because gone are the days of double dealing. I underscore this point because the present-day voice in the public square is loud and clear. Put it simply, voters are already willing to cast an informed vote not only for democracy to work well in Tanzania, but for their well-being in terms of social and economic rights and how prosperity should be shared among wananchi. This will also address the issue of voter ignorance which is normally less pronounced. In other words even those we believe are ignorant, they are no longer so because they have seen what they have been crying for and for ages. It is probably right to say days of cheating, corruption, and unhealthy propaganda are gone. To this possibility, I wish to differ with Niccolo Machiavelli, an Italian Renaissance diplomat, philosopher and writer who long ago proposed that politics have no relation to morals. This time ethics will prevail. If MPs cheated voters, they will suffer the consequences. In fact, I believe that this time voters will turn out in large numbers because they are well informed. With this possibility in mind, what I see is that this year voters will vote to maximize the interests of the greater society and not individual preferences. Our submission is realistic due to the current national positive sentiments characterised by peoples’ desire for change and national transformation. By all means these sentiments which I call new political election culture, shall be attached to voting and will motivate and generate support. Again, from what I hear in the public arena, it is very clear that wananchi confidence that the destiny of Tanzania is in their hands, has over the past five years, grown so much and they feel sad for being late but glad that they act now to shape the future they want. Those who will stand to be counted, I mean parliamentarians and others, should be aware of the fact that wananchi are now, more than ever before, aware that they have the capability to realise their full potential in development and to establish flourishing societies. Interestingly, unlike in the past, over the past few years there has been, if I may highlight, a growing silent but rigorous, empowering, a partisan, objective and citizen-responsive mechanism to assess the performance of our leaders especially MPs. A good example is the concern being raised by voters on critical aspect of chronic absenteeism by some MPs both in their constituents and the parliament. Unlike in the past, today most voters know very well that their MP regular attendance to parliament was critical not only for to the functioning of government but crucial for the effective representation of them - citizens during public debates and decision-making, a fundamental tenet of our democracy. While aware and respectful of other circumstances which might have affected MPs attendance to parliament, like illness, other varied roles and variety of duties, some may have been absent because they simply and regularly abandoned their parliamentary duties to undertake personal business. This is now very well known to voters. It is the denial of their right that is being provided with constituency service to their constituents. I would not be surprised to see some punished due to this misconduct. In my view therefore, if one knows that he was a leader who failed and his voters are feeling let down, he or she better not consider standing for the same or other positions. They better take political responsibility early. So, to conclude my observations today, let me use the words of Nancy Patricia Pelosi, an American politician serving as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives since January 2019 who says; elections are about the future. I believe wananchi – the voters, will follow this route to determine their future. I do not think this time politicians will, as Ivern Ball - American amateur writer puts it, make waves and then make someone think he or she is the only one who can save the ship. They will be elected according to what they did to people, and the new ones for truth in their agenda because people are what this coming election is all about, said Patricia Jane Berg, an American professional golfer. Therefore, it will be the voter’s motivation we have highlighted within the framework of a newly established political election culture which will determine the quality of leaders people want. This culture will also define voters’ willingness to cast an informed vote thereby contributing to the level and quality of democratic choice in 2020 and beyond. Cheers! ● Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics and Anti-Corruption Specialist Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997