ABOUT 80 per cent of experts in key strategic projects comprise local engineers, which gives a huge boost to the strengthening and growth of the country’s construction sector and economy. President of the Institution of Engineers Tanzania, Eng Menye Manga revealed this in Dar es Salaam, yesterday when briefing the media on the World Engineering Day which is marked globally on March 4, every year. Recently, the 40th General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) adopted the resolution to proclaim the day to celebrate the important contributions of engineers and engineering to sustainable development. Eng Manga observed that execution of projects such as the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), and Julius Nyerere Hydropower plant, among many others in the country, has largely attracted participation of local companies and engineers than ever before. He further revealed that engineering graduates are accommodated as part of practical field training, a key requirement before they can be registered as professional engineers. Reports show that at least 2000 new engineers graduate annually, but only 800 can be accommodated in the structured engineers’ apprenticeship programme (SEAP) for practical field training. The remaining 1200 graduates needed to pay 18m/- to be registered for the programme, which proved to be an obstacle for the majority. “Given the available opportunities, prospects show that the future is bright for more local experts and companies in the cadre,” optimised Eng Manga. “In the meantime, the country has among the best and capable experts…embarking on building institution capacities to fully supervise the projects is what is currently needed,” he added. He cited lack of enough financial resources as a major setback to the flourishing of a chunk of engineering experts. The President of the Association of Consulting Engineers in Tanzania (ACET), Mr Ngwisa Pembe urged the recognition of their great role in helping the community particularly at the time of catastrophes like heavy downpours which end up distracting crucial infrastructure in the community. “The community and institutions that consume engineering services should properly utilise engineers’ potentials for the development of the nation,” he noted. Eng Manga pointed out that the commemoration by East African countries is slated for March 27, this year at Ngurudoto Hotel in Arusha.