YOUNG Africans ended their winless run in the Mainland Premier League with a 2-0 win over Alliance FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Substitute Ditram Nchimbi powered the Jangwani Street lads in front at the restart and added the second later on as Yanga reach 44 points from 23 matches but remain fourth on the log. The 27- time champions lately have had a bumpy ride after sailing winless in their four back to back encounters which saw them losing 12 points in the process. Yanga dominated the first 45 opening minutes with over 70 per cent domination and created few scoring chances that went begging. Notable chance for Yanga came in the 44th minute; Tariq Seif wasted a glittering chance after he strode past defenders but goalkeeper Andrew Ntala was sharp to come out of his line and blocked him. After the break, Coach Luc Eymael made changes for Yanga as striker Ditram Nchimbi replaced Seif, while Alliance also rested Juma Nyangi and introduced Michael Chinedu. Immediately, Nchimbi made an impact as he scored an opener for Yanga in the 47th minute, with his first touch. He reached to a Morrison’s cross, beating his marker with a diving header to net past keeper Ntala. Then, Mohammed Issa Banka replaced Erick Kabamba as Yanga maintained their dominance, with the midfield of Haruna Niyonzima and Feisal Salum knocking the ball from side to side. Yanga survived a scare in the 67th minute, when Sameer Vincent connected a cut back pass from Chinedu but keeper Metacha Mnata was well placed to collect the ball. Deus Cosmas missed another clear chance for Alliance. Nchimbi netted his brace in the 78th minute, when he raced clear to a long ball from keeper Mnata and controlled the ball to beat onrushing keeper Ntala. Elsewhere, Azam FC recovered from winless run in their past three matches to beat JKT Tanzania 1-0 at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma to keep holding firmly the second spot and slightly revive their title race hope. Substitute Andrew Simchimba, who came in for Obrey Chirwa stole the winner for Azam a minute before the final whistle. Following the victory, the ‘ice cream makers’ post 48 points from 25 matches and cut gap with leaders Simba to 14 points. JKT Tanzania remained seventh on the log with 38 points in 25 outings. In another game, Namungo FC maintained their pace to challenge the top two after registering an away 1-2 win over Lipuli FC at the Samora Stadium in Iringa. The Lindi lads are placed third on the table on 46 points from 24 matches. The day also saw Mtibwa Sugar recovering from their recent slump to win 2-0 over Ndanda FC of Mtwara at Gairo ground in Morogoro to post 27 points from 25 matches and settle 14th on the log. The day also saw, Kagere Sugar being held to a 1-1 draw by Tanzania Prisons at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba. Mwadui FC beat Coastal union 2-0 at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, while Biashara United registered a 1-0 win over Mbeya City at the Karume Stadium in Musoma and at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast Region, host Ruvu Shooting beat Mbao FC 2-0. Singida United continued to sink deep as they lost 0-1 at home (Liti Stadium) at the hands of Polisi Tanzania. Today, runaway leaders Simba will be provided with an opportunity to regain their 17 point gap at the summit of the league table, when they face struggling KMC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba top the league table on 62 points from 24 matches and a win for the Reds today, will see them post 65 points from 25 matches, and maintain their impressive run of form. Sven Vandenbroeck charges will enter today’s match buoyed with their four straight wins in their past league matches coupled with a much improved and eye catching performance. Simba Communication Officer, Haji Manara has confirmed that almost all players in the squad including midfielder Muzamiru Yassin and attacker Miraji Athumani, who were sidelined for the past two months have fully recovered, fit and ready for the encounter. For KMC, defeat will be devastating as it will leave them deep in relegation tunnel. The Kinondoni lads currently sit second bottom on the log with 21 points from 24 matches. This means that KMC will come out fire blazing, seeking maximum points so as to crawl away from the cut off points.