REDHOT Simba seek to post their 6th straight win when they host Azam FC in the Premier League match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. After going down 1-0 to JKT Tanzania at Uhuru Stadium in the city on February 7th this year, Simba have neither lost nor drew in the five league games, hence the today’s match against second-placed Azam will be a good challenge to that run. It will be the clash of the league leaders as Simba who on the pilot seat will be facing their closest challengers Azam. As the victory is urgently needed by the both sides, it is clear indication that the match will be tough and highly challenging. Both teams go into the game with the positive mentality after winning their previous league matches to grab maximum points in the process, therefore a team that had ample preparations is the only like to emerge the winner of the fierce battle. Azam posted a late away 1-0 victory against JKT Tanzania at Jamhuri Stadium courtesy of Andrew Simchimba strike in the 89th minute. On the other hand, the defending champions Simba stamped a hard-fought 2-0 triumph over K MC at the National Stadium in the city on Sunday with Luis Miquissone scoring perhaps the fastest brace so far in the Vodacom Premier League. He scored the brace in the 69th and 7 1st minutes. The Mozambican has since become the household name as many people have been attracted with his playing style which has, to a large extent, heightened the status of the Msimbazi Street based club. However, whenever these two teams meet, usually one expects to watch clean football bearing in mind that both sides do have quality players in their squads who are capable to transform the trend of the game. Simba will also use today’s match as part of their preparation for the upcoming big encounter against their traditional rivals Young Africans on Sunday at the National Stadium in the city which is set to start at 6:00pm. Heading to the big match, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) yesterday unveiled entry charges as 30,000/-for VIP A occupants, 20,000/-for VIP A and B dwellers while Orange and Popular seats will be accessed by 10,000/-and 7 ,000/-respectively. Addressing members of the media here, TFF Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo urged those who deserve to sit at the VVIP to instantly communicate with the federation to have their names shortlisted since on the day, nobody will be allowed to accommodate where they do not deserve. Meanwhile, the sacked Azam FC Assistant Coach Idd Cheche refuted claims that he had poor working relationship with the team’s Head Coach, Aristica Cioaba as the reason behind his sacking. Azam announced on Monday evening that they have parted ways with Cheche who served at the club for a long time as well as the club’s Communication Officer, Jaffar Idd. “I think the decision to let me go is normal in football and can happen with any coach. I had a good working relationship with everyone at the club but as you know, anything has an end and nothing stays forever,” he said. He added that in football, when a team is not doing well, the blame is forwarded to the coach but when a team is winning, players are lauded hence he has welcomed the development with both hands.