THE City of Dar es Salaam will, in the near future, have two new terminals for buses from upcountry, and recently, a senior government official is reported to have made a tour of one of the sites where construction is ongoing. This is reported upon in the Good Citizen, in a news item titled: “City Fathers in yet another bus terminal project” (28 February, p. 4). The writer opens his item as follows, purporting to reflect what an economist in the Dar es Salaam City Council said: “Buses from northern regions will no longer have to reach Ubungo or the under-construction Mbezi Louis bus terminals following plans ‘to construction’ a new state-ofthe-art facility at Boko Basihaya. A feasibility study for construction of the Sh29 billion facility ‘has completed’”. In the above paragraph, the plans are for “the construction”, not “to construction” of a new state-of-the-art facility, whose feasibility study “has been completed”, not, “has completed”. According to the economist, “the ‘completion’ expects to employ more than 10,000 people after ‘the competition’”. This sentence does not make sense at all. What is that ‘completion’ that is expected to employ over 10,000 people (a figure clearly on the high side) after what ‘competition’? May be (and, a big may be) the writer had the following in mind: “More than 10,000 people are expected to get employment after the completion of the terminal”. In any case, it looks like the writer had the word “competition” stuck in his mind as he informs us further: “After ‘the competition’ of the project, the city council will no longer depend on the central government for its operations”. If we do away with “competition” and use another word, the sentence reads as follows: “After ‘the completion’ of the project, the city council will no longer depend on the central government for financing its operations”. As pointed out above, a senior government official is reported to have visited the Mbezi Luis site to inspect the ongoing construction work. In a caption to the photograph accompanying the story, he is identified as the Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office (Local Government and Regional Administration). In the main text however, he is addressed as the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication. Which is which? The Government is to be congratulated for undertaking this project. Large cities, in many parts of the world have various terminals for buses or trains that come in from other parts of the country. For Dar es Salaam, another two terminals need to be considered. One, to cater for buses coming in from the South (via Kilwa Road); and another one, for buses coming in from Kisarawe and beyond (via Nyerere (Pugu) Road). Before penning off, I would like to make a reminder that infections from the coronavirus are being reported from various parts of the world. Until recently, I did not know there was a “Corona” brand of a beer (I guess here, Corona is taken to mean “Crown”). I am informed by the manager of the hotel where I am currently residing in Nairobi, that this type of a beer has been taken off their shelf because people are not buying it for fear of attracting the virus! And as I wait for my meal, I can not help but smile at this headline appearing on my browser: “Iran temporarily ‘flees’ 54,000 prisoners to halt the spread of corona virus in packed jails”. The question that immediately comes to mind is: “Will the prisoners not flee?” Let us continue to be vigilant and take the necessary precautions against the deadly virus. lusuggakironde@gmail.com