AN international scholar of Development Studies at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Prof Marja Liisa Swantz, has donated over 1,000 rare books to the varsity’s library to help the university community and researchers pursue their studies. Prof Swantz who is a citizen of Finland is a long-term collaborator of the Institute of Development Studies at UDSM who worked at the university in development studies, African and women studies. She came at UDSM in the mid-1960s and left in 1985. The books were handed over by the Finnish Ambassador to Tanzania Ritta Swan to UDSM Vice-Chancellor, Prof William Anangisye, before UDSM’s top management, including the chairman of UDSM Council, Judge Damian Lubuva. A video conference linked the 94-year professor in Finland where she was able to witness the handover ceremony where she spoke to participants. Speaking during the handover ceremony at UDSM, Prof Anangisye said the donation of the books was a unique contribution that would go a long way in helping the university community and visiting researchers who used the varsity’s library as a key source of references. “We wish to assure Prof Swantz that the books she donated will be used as intended,” he said, adding that the UDSM library would design a better way of using the books." According to Prof Anangisye, the renowned expert taught retired President Jakaya Kikwete at UDSM. Speaking on behalf of Mr Kikwete, Judge Lubuva thanked the scholar for the contribution she had made to the university. “On behalf of the Chancellor of the University, I thank Prof Swantz for her generous donation of the rare books, and I am particularly very happy because Prof Swantz’s affection to UDSM remains very strong,” he said. Judge Lubuva said the books would improve the quality of teaching and learning at the university as he thanked the university management for ensuring a good working environment during the learning of Prof Swantz. The Finnish Ambassador thanked the university management for enabling the handover ceremony of the donation of collection of rare books from Prof Swantz. She said Prof Swantz, who is a pioneer to Finland’s academic fields, had good memories of the life she lived in Tanzania especially at UDSM.