NATIONAL Under-17 women football team Head Coach, Bakari Shime is plotting a game plan to be used to stamp a victory in the return leg of the 2020 Women’s World Cup qualifiers against Uganda on March 14th in Kampala, Uganda. The country’s envoys head into the match with a 2-1 win they registered at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday hence they just need to protect their lead without conceding any goal for them to progress into the next round of the contest whose finals will be played in India. Both goals for Tanzania were netted by Aisha Masaka, who could have registered a hat-trick on the day had she scored the spot kick, which was awarded to them midway into the second half but she narrowly missed the target. The only goal for Uganda was netted by Fauzia Najjemba, who struck first for her side to take a short-lived lead before a massive comeback from the hosts. Speaking after the morning training session at JMK Youth Park in the city, Shime said they have started to put in practice a game plan that will be essential to win their reverse away match in Uganda. “In football, you cannot run away from proper preparation because that is the most important thing to win a game. You can have many supporters in the stadium cheering for your team but if you are prepared poorly, there is no way you can be able to emerge winners,” he said. He added that the session merely focused on correcting some shortfalls which surfaced during the first leg tie of which he pointed out that most of his players lacked concentration especially after letting the visitors to score first. “We lacked concentration because we missed many scoring chances and gifted them a simple goal that is why we want to work hard on how they should be able to concentrate throughout the whole match,” he said. Moreover, the coach said they will also work on the psychological aspect of the players, bearing in mind that they will be playing away from home. He also commended the huge support they get from the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for supporting them dearly and let the team compete in various competitions organised in various parts of the world. "Let me call upon others to come forward and assist TFF in providing resources we need to build a strong competitive team capable to win matches and titles," he said. He again insisted that the first weapon to success is good preparation as such, people should not only be happy with the gained results without stretching a helping hand since it is costly to run a team. Until now, Masaka is the top goal scorer of the unfolding contest with five goals to her name and her flexibility on the pitch usually brings a positive impact in a game.