FIVE leaders, including the chairperson and secretary of Kaibanja Primary Cooperative Society (KPCS), are being interrogated by the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in relation to the disappearance of 25  tonnes of coffee worth 28m/-, the property of KPCS. Bukoba District Commissioner (DC), Deodatus Kinawiro, who visited KPCS at the weekend, named the suspects as Amida Maulid (the chairperson), Hadija Lucas, Zena Mohamed, Jasson Mugarula and Sweetbert Mutembei (the secretary). "The five suspects have been handed to PCCB for questioning. They will be arraigned after investigation," he said. According to Mr Kinawiro, the coffee was collected from farmers in Kaibanja Ward in Bukoba Rural District in August last year, but to date the farmers have not been paid their money. On January 28,  this year,  four leaders of Ngara Farmers' Cooperative Society (NFCS), including the chairman, Thomson Siyongwe (62), were arraigned before Bukoba Resident Magistrates’ Court charged with nine counts, including  misuse of office, conspiracy and  occasioning a loss of 14.1m/-, the property of NFCS. Other co-accused are Paschal Minani (70) (NFCS manager), Paschal Kangere (50) (accountant) and Basilius Thomas (53) (storekeeper). Prosecuting State Attorney Haruna Shomari alleged before Kagera Resident Magistrate in-charge John Kapokolo that the four accused employed by NFCS between 2012 and 2014, willfully occasioned a pecuniary loss to NFCS amounting 14.1m/-. Other offences facing them include misuse of public office, misuse of their positions and conspiracy to commit an offence. The magistrate noted that the offences fell under the Economic and Organised Crime Act, adding that the Resident Magistrates’ Court had no jurisdiction to grant bail to the accused. He thus clarified in his ruling that an application for bail should be channelled through the High Court which was the trial court. He ordered the accused to be remanded and adjourned the case No 1/2020 until March 11, this year.  