TANZANIA will this week submit a report on the implementation of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Diversity of Cultural Expressions 2005. The country’s report which will be submitted for the first time to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) is intended to contribute to a global report on the Convention, published every four years. The global report is based on quadrennial periodic reports submitted by state parties. Speaking in Dar es Salaam at the opening of a multi-stakeholder public presentation of the draft quadrennial periodic report for the convention, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Dr Harrison Mwakyembe called upon Tanzanians to grab opportunities arising from the convention. “This report will be read worldwide, therefore I call upon stakeholders and Tanzanians in general to be prepared to utilise various opportunities which will arise from the convention,” urged Dr Mwakyembe. He said that the government was aware of the benefits of the convention that is why it ratified it in 2011 to allow its people to benefit through sharing experience, achieve balanced flow of cultural goods and services and cultural professionals. “Those with knowledge on cultural issues should help others to enable them to benefit from the convention,” Dr Mwakyembe insisted. He said the government was supporting and prioritising culture and creative industry as it believed it was one of the fastest growing industries that empowered the youth through employment. The minister, however, expressed his dissatisfaction on how Tanzanians have responded to available opportunities of teaching Kiswahili in countries that seek to master the language. He said following the high demand for Kiswahili experts in the East Africa regional bloc and other nations, the government established a database for the language professionals and shared it with its embassies abroad. But, he said, currently the database has names which do not exceed 1,500 while the number of Kiswahili experts from Kenya and Uganda who have requested to be included in the database was exceeding the locals. Unesco National Programme Officer, Nancy Angulo, said that the report was part of the UNESCO global report series that tracks, on biannual basis, the implementation of the convention. Ms Angulo said the report will be presented to UNESCO this week to beat the set deadline, which is March 30, this year. She said culture and its diversity of expression forms the common heritage and the defining characteristics of humanity. The convention is guided by eight main principles, among others the respect of human rights and fundamental freedom, the principle of sovereignty, people’s dignity and respect of all cultures, international solidarity and cooperation, complementarity of economic and cultural aspect of development, sustainable development to the benefit of present and future generation. “With cultural diversity we can achieve so much such as citizens engaged, increased productivity, creativity and participation of our people in the development process,” Ms Angulo said. Boniface Kadili, Focal Point of the UNESCO, said that the report shows what Tanzania has done in four areas which are support sustainable systems of governance for culture, achieve balanced flow of cultural goods and services and increase the mobility of Artists and cultural professionals, integrate culture in sustainable development frameworks and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.