TANZANIA volleyball star David Neeke is delighted to secure contact with Equity Bank Volleyball Club of Kenya this year. The national beach volleyball member Neeke was among the four national team members who camped in Dar es Salaam to prepare for the Regional Beach Volleyball Championship. They camped for the event that served as the Africa Tokyo 2020 Olympic Group B qualifying second round. The tournament which was start from March 27 to 29 this year at Coco Beach before postponement was postponed due to COVID-19 pandemic. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ over the weekend, Neeke said that he is fortunate to join a team like Equity which joined Kenyan top flight volleyball league two years ago. Neeke who has joined Equity after his service with Mombasa Prisons also from Kenya and said: “Equity is big team which has better plan for its players; I have joined them because I like their development plan.” He said has already seen tremendous development since joining them and will work even harder to fulfill the team’s ambition which is first to qualify for the play-off stage when the Kenyan league resumes after Coronavirus outbreak. “I am optimistic the team will qualify for the play off stage due to efforts they put in their hunt for success. “Play-off stage is a very important step for the team and the individuals as it opens a door to play in the African Club Championships and face continental top teams,” he said. Neeke added that since his ambition is to play professional volleyball in Europe, the continental level events will be very important platform to showcase his skills and reach his desired goal. “My desire always remains to play in Europe, I could say it should be already happened, but it has hampered by ankle injury that kept me out of the game for almost all the season last year, several teams had then already shown interest to recruit me, I’ am back now, I will work hard to get back where I was,” said Neeke. The former Jeshi Stars player, Neeke said he was delighted to play in Kenyan league because it is far advanced compared to our league. “Like most of sports there, volleyball is run professionally, but in Tanzania we play for fun since it is still at the amateur level. Speaking about national team camp and tournament postponement, Neeke said: “At this time around people safety is most important, but in other way round as player sociologically it disturbs, we were well prepared and motivation was high too. “Olympic Games postponed until 2021, could have impact for the team too, one year for players is long and we do not know what will happen then.” he stressed. Neeke however, he said that playing in  Olympic Games is every player’s dream and it is same for national team, so they will do their best at qualify for the first time. 