IT may sound too early to judge candidates regarding what they have so far said and what has been left out, but a reminder to them and at this stage is of essence. My polite reminder to all is this; we want to hear more regarding moving the children agenda forward, because children, as a special group, are disadvantaged compared to the general population. I wish candidates will consider and give students due weight. Yes, we want to hear more about what the future shall look like as far as children’s voices, concerns and interests are concerned. We want to hear candidates showing quite earnestly that if they get elected they will ensure that concerns about children will find a solution and enjoy meaningful attention from them. If attention to children is not paid now, surely after election a common tendency where children value of opinions, goals and desires tend to be forgotten may take ages to be addressed. We hope candidates will understand the truth that moving children agenda forward will eventually open the door for those who will be elected to be able to listen to them and allow them to contribute to decision-making processes, something which can lead to better decisions for our nation building strategy. We want to see and hear more that after elections, children shall be involved in the wide range of issues that affect them. In fact, this should be a concern because we can easily see, in the multitude of people listening to candidates, the most deprived and most vulnerable children carried on the backs of voters. So, I have reasons for my call. I am simply worried that as it has been for a longtime now, many politicians have continued to regard children as dependent subalterns. This unsettling assumption which in turn is taken for granted as ‘normal’ is bad and has led to children’s position to remain unjust. I know the 5th phase government of Tanzania has made remarkable progress in securing justice for other disadvantaged groups. But in my view, more needs to be done for children. Well, one might think I am now segregating other groups. I am not. Please do not misunderstand me. I know the extent to which Tanzania’s 5th phase government under JPM has cared for its citizens over the past five years. When I suggest that children seem to be a missing link during the ongoing political campaign, I am not suggesting that some citizens should be cared for more than others, no. That is not my position. What I have noted during the on-going campaign is that there are evident powerful political and social forces that position children’s agenda at the campaigning platforms down at the peripheral. One of these is the problem of generalisation of priorities and limited focus on children. Many consider what they say in their agenda to be overall beneficial to all, including children. This is not necessarily the case. This generalisation approach could lead to a serious failure in paying attention to the needs and interests of children. In my view, children inclusion isn’t a quick fix. They must be unambiguously recognised and treated as full participants in our Tanzanian societies. By doing so, their voices, desires, needs and rights will not be marginalised. Put simply, candidates should embed children as equal participants in the on-going campaign. To recapture our concern regarding limited campaign discourses on moving the children agenda forward, two key issues need to be looked at. One is to put the record clear on whether children’s discourses are enough in the ongoing campaign or not. Secondly is the need to clarify what should precisely entail a programme to enable Tanzanian children to prosper. Well, first and foremost is the need for candidates to know that our children have their special needs, especially now when they struggle to survive in an increasingly complex and fast-changing Tanzania. Obviously, space cannot allow us to fully explain what the children’s agenda should entail, but some highlights are important. In my view, this should begin with our candidates, that if they happen to be elected, they shall aspire to see Tanzania putting children first. We want candidates who will indicate that they shall encourage citizens to fulfill their obligation to our children, including but not limited to the protection of our children. I mention protection because as a result of breakdown in traditional forms of authority in the raising of children, there is a lot happening today, including the prevalence of domestic violence and the occurrence of child abuse and incest. These tend to be left unattended. We want campaigners to know that what we want is to see our children prosper, to be safe and respected, and to enjoy equal opportunities and rights like every other Tanzanian. Among many issues that need to be raised during this campaign period is to hear campaigners indicate their desire to see Tanzanian children empowered. On my side, I would wish to hear more of the promises that candidates will provide an enabling environment for Tanzania’s children to flourish and reach their full potential. I am eagerly awaiting to hear candidates highlighting that the Tanzanian family, like most African countries today, is in crisis and we are suffering from a massive failure of parentage, something which raises concern regarding the indiscipline of children in our societies. For the future of our country, our candidates should join parents and accept responsibility for how families are turning out. I wish campaigning platforms will be full of discourses on children’s wellbeing and clearly indicate a vision directed towards a concern on the duty to guide and instruct our children effectively. So, in the remaining weeks, we are eagerly awaiting to hear candidates drawing children within the ongoing political campaign sphere while showing us set of ideas that revolve around children. I conclude by reminding my readers of famous peoples’ wisdom. In one of his famous speeches, Nelson Mandela, former President of South Africa, said there can be no keener revelation of a society’s soul than the way in which it treats its children. In a similar tone, long before Mandela’s wise words, two other presidents had said, children are our most valuable resource, Herbert Hoover, the 31st President of the United States; and children are the living messages we send to a time we will not see, John F. Kennedy, 35th President of the United States. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@ gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997