SEVERAL years ago, I had an occasion to pay a courtesy call to Kizega Primary School in Iramba District, Singida region. The school is situated just a few kilometres south of Kiomboi town along Kiomboi - Ruruma road. Apart from taking normal children, the school also enrolls children with special needs, including those having disability and albinism. At that time, there was no tap water near the school compound or any other source with clean and safe water. Pupils had to walk several kilometers from school to a nearby river to fetch water. That was the time the wave of killings and attacks targeting people with albinism had reached its peak. Just imagine how dangerous it was for pupils with albinism to walk all the way to the river every morning to fetch water. This is to say nothing of the absence of a fence for the school compound during the night. But that was long ago. Last week, I went back to the school to see the difference after all those years have passed. Alas! It was quite a different school, well equipped with all the facilities and amenities you can think of. Talk of running water from the taps, electricity, modern dormitories furnished with state of art beds and immaculate mattresses covered with attractive bed sheets, dining hall with a television set, kitchen, classrooms with quality desks, toilet rooms and to cap it all, a wall fence standing tall on all fours to protect the pupils. The Head Teacher for Kizega Primary School, Andrea Muna says all credit for the school rehabilitation, construction or installation of any facility should go to World Vision Tanzania, Kisiriri Area Development Programme (ADP). “Pupils had to go to the river to fetch water early in the morning almost five kilometres from here. They spent several hours to and fro. They were always late for their lessons......that was a real challenge to us. But out of the blues, World Vision came to our rescue, transforming the school to almost a ‘paradise’ “ Mr Muna says. Hajra Mohammed, Salome Paulo and Pili Saragana who are Standard Seven pupils with albinism at the school bear witness to the work well done by World Vision. They say, since World Vision provided the school with water, electricity and other essential facilities and amenities, learning environment has now become conducive. “We hope our academic performance will excel and pass rate will improve because we don’t have to waste time looking for water anymore,” says Hajra. Pili on the other hand says electricity at the school will provide her an opportunity to learn much more than before and Salome says the fence surrounding the school compound makes her feel safe and comfortable. Kisiriri Area Programme facilitator, Florian Buraya says one of the main objectives of the programme was to improve the wellbeing and transform the future of children and its community at large in the area. “Taking that into account, one of the earmarked beneficiaries was Kizega Primary school. We injected 130m/- to the school in order to address the challenges thoroughly. The fruits of our efforts can now vividly be seen by any visitor to the place” he says. Buraya names other sectors implemented during the period as education, health and nutrition, water and sanitation, household livelihoods and resilience, child safety and protection to five wards of Kidaru, Tulya, Kisiriri, New Kiomboi and Old Kiomboi wards that consist of 19 villages. Last week, World Vision Tanzania phased out Kisiriri AP. Looking back at the long journey since business in the area started 16 years ago, Kisiriri Area Programme Manager, Joseph Shayo says he is proud of the achievements and has a lot of success stories to tell the world. “We first met the community of Kisiriri in 2004. Most of the children did not go to school because their parents did not appreciate the benefits of education. At home families often did not have enough food because they used outdated techniques. They even didn’t understand the importance of balanced diet so many children were weak and sick because they didn’t get enough healthy food,” he says and goes on telling his tale. “Water sources were dirty and dangerous since many children got sick from preventable illness like diarrhea. They often missed school because they had to walk miles to fetch water. Few homes had proper washing facilities or toilets; which means hygiene was poor. Health centres were hard to find, so children missed out immunisation and their mums did not get support during pregnancy or after their babies were born” he narrates. Shayo says today’s children and future generations have the hope of bright future because schools are better equipped, parents are more supportive of their children’s education too. He also remarks that farming techniques have improved and farmers have learned new ways on how to increase food production so that they can feed their families and make a living. He concludes his long story by saying better health services are now available since community health workers have been trained to support families and new wells and water tanks provide safe water. Families have learnt about the importance of good hygiene; that has led to a drop in the number of children falling sick. Speaking during the phasing out of the project on behalf of World Vision Tanzania Director General, Ms Neseriani Mollel said during the 16 years of its implementation, Kisiriri AP had transformed the lives of more than 37,600 people out of which 4,800 are children, some living in vulnerable conditions. “These projects were aimed at solving various social and economic challenges, ensuring the best possible welfare of the child and the improvement of their present and future life. World Vision believes the changes that have taken place will last, support children and their families now and for many years to come,” she observed. However, she pointed out that the transformations on economic and social development achieved in the area, were largely due to the high level cooperation between the government of Tanzania and World Vision. “At all times the government has been a great help to us by providing us with guidelines and policies that enabled us provide services to the community smoothly. As we wind up this project, we must say we are very grateful to the government and the community in general for the support we got” she said. World Vision is an International Christian Organisation working in more than 90 countries worldwide. It concentrates much on the improvement of livelihood and prosperity of children and the community in general. In Tanzania, it started business in 1981 covering 15 regions in the country out of 33 and hoping to reach over 15 million children through its various projects.