PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said the government was planning to introduce a special health service that would address Non- Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in all regions in attempts to draw health services closer to the public. Mr Majaliwa made the remark, while launching the Moshi Urban constituency's Chama Cha Mapinduzi 2020 General Election campaign over the weekend, adding that the services will mainly focus on treating cancer, kidney and heart related diseases. The Premier, who is also a CCM's National Executive Committee (NEC) Central Committee (CC) member said health service sector improvement, was one of the priorities of the government. “The government has already introduced the services in Dar es Salaam as a move that would reduce the burden of patients suffering from any of the three diseases going abroad to seek the same treatments at high costs. “Now the government is planning to introduce the services at regional level through Regional Referral Hospitals to reduce the burden of patients going to Dar es Salaam to seek the same treatments,” he pointed out. However, he said the move was part of the fifth phase government’s continuous effort in improving the health sector   for better welfare of the citizens and nation development. Ahead of the General Elections scheduled for October 28th this year, Mr Majaliwa equally urged Moshi Urban residents to vote CCM candidates, adding that their national flag bearer, Dr John Magufuli has achieved a lot while in the government as the president. “President Magufuli should be given another five years to continue with the good work he has been doing in the past five years. He has shown great love to the citizens, he is faithful, courageous and patriotic,” he said. Commenting on the revival of the defunct industries within Kilimanjaro region, the Premier urged the regional administrators to organize a special business forum, where the country’s future of industrialization programmes are routinely discussed at the regional level. “During this forum, you will outline your regional industrialization opportunities, discuss the defunct industries and possible ways to revive them,” he said. Elaborating, the Premier further said that during the forum, those who acquired the industries to run them, but have not done any tangible thing should express openly when to start their operations. “Those who will say they are ready to operate the industries… ask them to table their work plans showing when to do so, and those not ready, then the relevant authorities should give them another chance or other potential investors to take over,” he directed. Specifically, Mr Majaliwa urged Moshi Urban voters to vote CCM candidate, Mr Priscus Tarimo to the National Assembly for his experience in development, having been a Councillor within the Moshi Municipal Council for the past ten years. “His experience as a Councillor for ten years shows that he can mobilize the public to achieve their desired development goals, which they (Moshi residents) have been longing for,” he said. On welcoming the Prime Minister, the Kilimanjaro Regional CCM Chairman Patrick Boisafi said the area was well prepared to vote CCM into power starting from the grassroots of Councillor to the national level.