THE Procurement and Supplies Professionals and Technicians Board (PSPTB) has developed a professional development programme to provide technical, leadership and soft skills. PSPTB Acting Director of Professional Development Amos Mang’ombe told the ‘Daily News’ that the programme also accommodated non-professionals related in one way or another with the procurement process within an organisation. “Training offered twice a month to address challenges that are most prevalent in audit reports as most of them have identified that practitioners and other key players in the procurement value chain do not reach the required level,” he said. According to him, the board as well offers tailor-made training and advice to institutions that have recorded poor performance in audit reports. He said statistics showed that over 80 per cent of the government budget was spent on procurement to offer such training to curb irregularities and underperformance. Since its inception in 2007, the board has registered more than 10,000 procurement and supply professionals at various levels where they are required to discharge their duties professionally. PSPTB established by Parliamentary Act No 23 is the successor of both the National Board for Materials Management (NBMM) founded in 1981 by Parliamentary Act No 9 and Materials Management Caretaker Committee (MMCC) founded in 1978 laid the foundation for professionalism which later gave rise to the birth of NBMM. Mr Mang’ombe also used the opportunity to invite procurement and supply professionals to their 11th annual conference that aimed at bringing together professionals to share and discuss their experiences, challenges and resolutions. Carried under the theme Reaching Excellence in Procurement and Supply Chain Management the conference would be held in Arusha from December 2-4, 2020 whereby non-professionals were also invited to share and discuss their experiences. He further said as the government developed Tanzanian National e-Procurement System (TANePS) they had also invited private institutions that would share their procurement systems to see how they could improve the current system. The director said Tanzania as a middle-income economy needed procurement and supply professionals who would do their job efficiently and effectively in the country’s major projects. “When we talk about the value chain of procurement and supply key players are many thus we bring them together annually and discuss how they can make this value chain more productive in various projects. We want the contribution of these professionals to be seen to gain value for money,” he explained. Mr Mang’ombe said participation fee for registered professionals paid 500,000/-, those who were not registered from other fields would pay 650,000/- and for students who wished to participate would have to pay 300,000/-.