A MAJOR business of the day was none other than the arrival of CCM presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli from Kagera Region, where he had been campaigning before arriving to Kigoma Region. Thousands of Kigoma residents from all walks of life lined up on both sides of the road to receive him. He was graced by a joyful and cheering crowd at Kakonko, crossing the border on Thursday from Kagera to Kigoma Region. It was like a public holiday at Kakonko as roads were full-packed by both members of CCM and supporters of Dr Magufuli. The place was in yellow and green as everyone struggled to see Dr Magufuli. While at Kakonko, Dr Magufuli promised to continue improving Tanzanians’ wellbeing by constructing roads, supplying clean and safe water, free education and improving health services. He said his government had played a big role in improving the economy and setting up strong a foundation for the country's economic growth. From Kakonko, Dr Magufuli proceeded to Kibondo, where he was greeted by an excited audience that had gathered as early as 6am. As usual, Dr Magufuli explained his gratitude for such a welcome as he promised to repay by working hard if re-elected on October 28. "I am very happy to be welcomed here. I ask you to vote for me and other CCM candidates so that we can together work hard to bring about development to this area and to the nation at large,” he explained. In Kasulu District, the usually busy town, almost came to a standstill as residents and visitors headed to Kiganamo grounds. The residents, who thronged the grounds had to wait for some hours before the CCM presidential candidate arrived. Apart from waiting for so long, no one moved a step from his/her position. The hundreds of thousands of citizens kept waiting tirelessly until Dr Magufuli arrived. He told them that his government looked forward to connecting Kigoma to an international road network. He said his government would construct roads in the region that would link Kigoma to other six countries. Friday was another great day for Kigoma municipal residents. Many residents flocked to Lake Tanganyika Stadium where the campaign was conducted. President Magufuli, as usual, promised major changes to Kigoma Region and the nation at large.