SIMBA have defended the quality of their kit saying it ideal for the level of the club’s supporters countrywide. Uhlsport, a Germany company is manufacturer of the Simba’s kit and the national team, Taifa Stars for many decades now. The club’s Information officer Haji Manara said in a meeting between the Sports editors and the club’s Chief Executive Officer Barbara Gonzalez, the team’s investor Mohamed Dewji at Kempinski  Hotel in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. The club invited editors to seek their views on how best to develop football in the country whose level of professionalism has considerably soared up. Admittedly, Haji said the quality of kit being paraded by their traditional rivals Young Africans is slight superior, as plans for the superior kit is on a pipeline. “It is a kit whose quality serves the level of income of our multimillion supporters. We bring them something they can easily afford to buy,” said Haji, a man who has done a commendable job promoting Simba to the present height. However, despite defending the move for Uhlsport products, it was not, however, explained what really grades the kit lowly. From what the football observers take, it is not quality rather than the manufacturer’s status. It is a decade now since Simba Uhlsport Tanzania officially began selling the Simba SC Tanzania jersey at 15,000/  for a low quality jersey, which is far cheaper compared to average 70 US dollar( about 162,000/-) a cost of Manchester United’s Adidas jersey. For Manchester United’s fan seeking the 2020/21 kit he or she must part ways with 130 US Dollars (about 301,000). Uhlsport GmbH is a German sporting goods manufacturer. Originally established in 1948 as "Haase & Uhl OHG" and later renamed "Karl Uhl GmbH", the company became "uhlsport GmbH" in 1994. It is an international company which has its permanent headquarters in Balingen in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. The company manufactures and distributes its products through the brands Uhlsport, Kempa, Spalding and BLK. The company was founded in 1948 by Karl Uhl. Early production focused on the manufacture of leather studs for football boots, and in 1953 uhlsport also began to produce football boot soles for sports shoe manufacturers. Since 2002, the company has been operating a multi-brand strategy for football, handball, and basketball. Still despite its less-favourite allegation, three Bundesliga teams wear Uhlsport. The teams include Fortuna Düsseldorf, FC Kaiserslautern and FC Köln. In Africa Egyptian clubs such as  Haras El Hodoud and Petrojet parade Uhlsport manufactured kit while in Kenya Ulinzi are bearers of the Germany’s third most known manufacturer after Puma and Adidas.