A MEMBER of CCM’s National Executive Committee (NEC), Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has said the government plans to establish water authority in Chemba district, Dodoma region. Mr Majaliwa made the revelations while addressing the public at Mnadani, Kelema village in Chemba district, Dodoma region yesterday, at a campaign rally to market CCM’s presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli, as well as parliamentary and councillorship candidates in the area. “This district doesn’t have water authority. Therefore, we are going to establish the authority so that workers for the authority could stay here in the district. They should stay here in order to make close follow-ups on the water sources from here as we continue addressing the water problems in the district,” he affirmed. He said the government disbursed 1.68bn/- for a survey to find water sources at Orada, Kisanga, Moi, Mondo and Ndaki. The fifth-phase government also allocated 677m/- for drilling wells at Mondo, Mrijo Juu, Chambalo, Hamai and Chemba area. “We are certain that if we get 4,700 litres of water, it will be enough to build water network. Works for improving water infrastructures are ongoing. Another amount of 150m/- has been set aside to supply water to Kelema, Msaada and Bumbu,” he said. On the health sector, the Prime Minister said the government has allocated 1.8bn/- for building district hospital in Chemba, in order to bring health services closer to the people, unlike the current situation, where they have to travel to Kondoa for the services. “Our aim is to ensure that every Tanzanian gets services right from where he/she is and by constructing a Dispensary in every village, and Health Centre in every Ward. After completion of the construction of the buildings, we are going to release 500m/- for purchasing medical equipment,” he assured. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa said President Magufuli has decided to lower prices of power connectivity, so that people could afford to acquire such service now being taken to grassroots countrywide. The government has reduced charges for connecting electricity to homes from 380,000/- to 27,000/-. Mr Majaliwa continues with election campaigns in Kondoa district.