THE government has ordered all civil servants who were suspended and their salaries subsequently frozen for vying different seats during the internal primaries in political parties to be reinstated with immediate effect from today. Permanent Secretary in the President's Office Public Service Management issued a government's notice dating August 26 to all-state employers to nullify their notice that directed all political aspirants to be relieved off their duties. "They are all now required to report at work and resume their positions with immediate effect this September 1st,” said Dr Francis Michael, Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry. "The officers must also be given their statutory payments including salaries beginning September," he added during a meeting with executives from the ministry of water. Political parties have so far completed their internal nomination processes to get their flag bearers for the presidency, legislative and Council position in race for the October polls. Under the public service management and election regulations, civil servants were subject to terminating their titles and entitlement during the nomination process. However, Dr Michael noted that only those who have been appointed by their respective political parties would no longer resume work this month. Equally, he directed permanent secretary in the ministry of water and executive directors in the ministry to immediately write letters to all employees in their department, who were temporarily suspended that they must resume their duties unconditionally. Deputy Attorney General, Evaristo Longopa, while addressing the podium said public servants have the rights also to be members of any political party of their interest, except those in sensitive areas like security, the prevention and combating of corruption bureau, the parliament, the judiciary, returning officers and the national election commission. He said, as the nation head to the general election, civil servants must take all necessary precaution not to use public resources for political gains. Mr Longopa further said subject to election laws, a losing candidate can file a lawsuit to challenge election results, adding: “It happened before in 1994 in Kigoma and in 2012 in Tabora. You must be very careful.” However, he cautioned civil servant over taking part in election campaigns especially during working hours saying employers can sue them for misuse of public office and embezzlement. Weighing his words, he said all servants except those in special category can this year, fully exercise their political right(s) to vote for a leader(s) of their choice.