IN what appears to be setting a record of his own, the ruling party-CCM Presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli said yesterday that resolving people’s problems will remain his top priority. He said that for the past five years, his government focused on addressing people's problems and implementing various development projects, which have so far brought major changes in the country. Dr Magufuli told Nzega residents at a fully packed Samora grounds in Nzega town that he did not travel to Western countries because he wanted to change the country. “For me, it is a heroic move to focus on the development issues of my people, instead of planning for abroad trips,” he said. He said instead of travelling to European countries, he focused on changing Tanzania to look like Europe and that his strategy is on the right track. Dr Magufuli asked Tanzanians to vote for him and those who are seeking legislative posts through CCM ticket, whilst pledging to continue working hard for the development of all Tanzanians. “We have recorded great strides in the past five years, we have implemented almost everything in our 2015-2020 election manifesto, we are therefore seeking another chance to continue with this good job,” he explained. According to Dr Magufuli, in fulfilling some of the development plans, his government has managed to purchase brand new 11 aircraft, construct roads and that it is continuing with the construction of a Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and Julius Nyerere Hydro power project. Dr Magufuli assured wananchi that if re-elected into power in the October polls, his government will perform a wonderful job, more than what it did in the past five years. “The last five years was just a trailer, just give us another five years, I promise great changes,” he noted. He asked the public to avoid voting for some people who believe and trust in aids from donors, instead of setting strong strategies for generating its own revenues. “Some people in this country always believe in embracing Western countries to seek support, this will not help us to move forward, therefore, do not make mistakes in the coming general election,” he said. He added: “I stayed in Europe during my studies, but I had never thought of staying there, the only thing I want is to change Tanzania so that it could look like Europe,” he said. Commenting on major projects that have been implemented in Nzega District and Tabora Region, Dr Magufuli said his government has continued with its efforts to open up the region by linking it with neighbouring regions. He said the government is continuing with the construction of tarmac roads to link the region to Kigoma, Shinyanga and Singida. On provision of reliable and clean water services, President Magufuli said his government has managed to implement the mega project from Lake Victoria at a cost of 600bn/- and that in Nzega District, a total of 50,000 people in the township are expected to benefit from the project. “The project has so far been implemented by 95 per cent, and thousands of wananchi in Nzega and Tabora region in general will benefit from it… it is a huge investment,” he noted. The Head of State said his government has also fulfilled its promises by connecting power to more than 9000 villages countrywide, offering quality free education, improving health services and ensuring proper tax collection. Other promises that have been well implemented include establishment and reviving of industries, creating employment opportunities, fighting corruption and many others. “Some people hate me and my government because I have managed to seal their corruption loopholes,” he said. Earlier, candidate for Nzega urban legislative post, Hussein Bashe said in the past five years, the government has constructed the main Mbogwa Bridge and that the construction has reached 90 per cent.  He said Nzega council revenues increased from 800m/- in 2015 to 1.8bn/- in 2020. He said three secondary schools and one boarding school for girls have been constructed in the area. According to Mr Bashe, the Nzega Urban constituency is working on a big project that will enable the production of seeds for farmers.  He said upon the completion of the project, farmers will get seeds at 5000/- instead of 12,000/-. He said all 10 wards and 27 villages are already connected to electricity in his constituency. On SGR, Mr Bashe said the completion of the project will bring economic revolution to Nzega and Tabora region residents. “This project will enable traders to transport rice and cattle to Dar es Salaam Region at a low cost. Today, one cattle is transported at 50,000 to Dar es Salaam, with SGR, things are going to change and our economy will grow,” he noted. Earlier, Dr Magufuli addressed wananchi at Misigiri, Shelui in Iramba District, Singida Region and Igunga in Tabora Region.