FOR the past 12 years, mechanical faults have caused over 40,000 road accidents, hundreds of deaths, injuries and property damage in Tanzania. However, there is no data to show how many garage owners and operators have been held accountable for recurrent fatal accidents. According to Head of Traffic Police (Education Department) Superintendent of Police (SP) Abel Swai, the Road Traffic Act (RTA) sets a provision that requires a driver to ensure the vehicle is in good condition before taking it to a public road. “The law stipulates that a driver, who in most cases has been awarded a certificate of competency, is sure his or her vehicle is mechanically sound. This may also involve vehicle owners who allow their vehicles to be taken to the public road,” he said. “The RTA requires any driver to ensure side-view mirrors and an electric system are in good working condition, otherwise it is prohibited to drive a vehicle. A vehicle mechanic or garage owner may only be held accountable if found driving a defect vehicle, but not the work done on a vehicle. However, statistics released by the police show that between 2008 and 2019 at least 40,873,242 accidents were caused by mechanical defects alone. On the other hand, mechanics who repair a vehicle have a good chance to determine the safety of passengers and of other road users. Unfortunately, inspection of the garages is not done adequately, which may lead to having a defective vehicle. Tanzania has registered 407,510 vehicles by 2019 according to a senior lawyer from the Traffic Police Department, Superintendent of Police (SP) Deus Sokoni. Arusha resident Martine Ndibaika was disappointed by the mechanics who repaired his vehicle for incompetency and substandard repairs. He said he did not rush to pay them for the work done before he found out what had been fixed and whether it was properly done. Director General of Land Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA) Gilliard Ngewe said there were lousy methods of inspecting the auto mechanics personnel and garages in the country. He told ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview that Section 5 of the LATRA Act of 2019 directed not only mandatory vehicle inspection, but also the garages and type of mechanics involved in repairing vehicles. “The Regulations are formulated by the Attorney General (AG)’s Office. The LATRA will change licence conditions to involve important aspects like people who repair vehicles. Therefore, we expect to put in place a regulatory framework of certifying garages, mechanics used as a condition for transportation licence issuance,” he said. Analysis of where repairs and services are performed in different parts of the country, one sees the danger not only of road accidents, but also the lives of mechanics and nearby people are exposed to risks. In most areas, trucks and other vehicles are serviced under tree shades like a mango, baobab or other trees. Other services are near walls of big buildings or substandard warehouses. Dr Kivugo told ‘Daily News’ in his office that there was almost no garage in the real sense even if they were very few. A mechanical engineer expert highlighted how mechanics’ working environment was linked to fatal road accidents. “In most parts of the country, a garage is just somewhere under the shade of a tree by the roadside with a person whether trained or untrained running it. He works as a mechanic as long as he can loosen or tighten some parts of a vehicle.” He said even those working in a certain garage, what was done was not inspection and repairing in the real sense. If a driver complains about faulty brakes what is How unregulated garages jeopardise safety of road users Regular vehicle inspection and repairs are needed to ensure the safety of drivers and passengers and other road users. This is one of the garages that offer standard services. done is to fix the brakes without checking other causative factors which after a short distance can lead to an accident. He said most road accidents were caused by human error (which accounted for over 85 per cent of the total road accidents recorded in Tanzania in 2017), mechanical faults and environmental conditions. All these basically originate from substandard repairs from unqualified and unmonitored mechanics. One of the incidents to remember is the reported death of three pedestrians in Morogoro after a moving truck’s front tire came off and hit the victims to death. Others are reported regularly, including those causing vehicles to ram into a wayside or other vehicles caused by a wheel coming off or a tire burst. Dr Kivugo said incompetent mechanics who repaired tires or filled in the air were the causes of such accidents. He said the mechanics knew little or got minimal supervision. He said pressurising a tire above average led to brake failure or tire burst which caused fatal accidents. A survey conducted by this reporter has established that in most long distance trucks transporting goods from Dar es Salaam Port to upcountry and neighbouring countries didn’t have clear mechanical methods. When reached for comment, Police Force Head of Traffic Unit Fortunatus Musilimu said his duty was to ensure that all vehicles moving on public roads were mechanically sound. “Our duty is to ensure vehicles are well-maintained. Garage and mechanical issues are not part of our enforcement. But we are awake all the time to ensure road safety issues are taken into account.” Tanzania Media Women Association (Tamwa) Project Coordinator Gladness Munuo said that the concern must go beyond garages if we were to minimise fatal accidents. She said the government through relevant authorities must also inspect genuinely of imported spare parts. “Vehicle spare parts are imported, but we don’t have a workable mechanism to ensure the imported parts are of genuine standard. This is to be done all over East African Community member states if we want to save lives,” she insisted. She noted that to succeed in this some measures must be taken into consideration, including regular training of various officers in vehicle inspection to ensure they are mechanically fit.