STAKEHOLDERS in the agriculture sector have been called upon to join efforts and enable it grow further since it is instrumental in the national economic growth. The call was made here by a cross section of stakeholders who gathered to discuss opportunities and challenges in developing the sector to another level, now that most farmers in the country have access to financial services. The meeting convened by the Financial Sector Deepening Trust (FSDT) called for a new focus on developing agriculture in the county, focusing on increased value addition. In this aspect, financial institutions such as banks were challenged on how to enable smallholder farmers add value to their produce or enable them establish small industries. Speaking after the meeting, FSDT’s Head of Agriculture and Rural Finance, Mwombeki Baregu, observed that there is need for various partners to further consider contribution of agriculture sector towards an industrial economy. He said the discussion was based on the opportunities to enable farmers benefit from the existing financial services to expand and improve their productivity. Mr Mwombeki added that there should be policies that help further promote the sector and empower industries that use local agricultural raw products. “Such strategies are very important as the nation moves towards the upper middle-income economy,” he said. He cited increased access to finances by farmers as one of the successes of working together by different stakeholders to empower farmers through financial inclusion. FSDT’s Operations Director, Irene Mlola noted that the organization played an important role in linking farmers with financial institutions. “It is a point where we saw the need to bring together various stakeholders to debate on how to link farmers in the rural areas with financial institutions and operators” she said. She said the aim was to look at the existing infrastructure to enable service providers reach farmers, a move that resulted to over one million coffee and cashew nut farmers opening bank accounts and getting financial transactions through banks. The National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) Marketing and Customer Services Manager, Hipoliti Lello, acknowledged that it is through such partnership that the fund has managed to reach over 6000 farmers in the country. He said through collaboration with FSDT, the fund provided insurance services, whereby they pay only 76,800/- per year for health services. “The only challenge is that the traditional health insurance is new mostly in the informal sector,” he said, adding that most farmers just seek insurance services only when they are sick. He noted that NHIF will soon introduce insurance premium financing, whereby members will be able to get paid for insurance services even when it is not a farming season. CRDB Bank’s Senior Manager for Kilimo Biashara, Shabaan Magesa, noted that through finance inclusion farmers have moved away from the traditional way of carrying bulk amount in cash. “One of the key things is to invest in industries that boost value addition in agricultural produce in the country to improve farmers’ livelihoods,” he said. Tanzania Agriculture Development Bank (TADB)’s Director of Finance, Derick Lugemele, said there is big progress realized through the cooperation, noting that in Kagera region, for instance, only one per cent of coffee farmers were getting money through bank accounts, but currently 99 per cent of them get services through the financial institutions.