ARE you still in a working age group and think of withdrawing your contributions from the National Social Security Fund (NSSF)? You may change your mind upon hearing how pensions have made life easier for retirees---living a happy life and proud of life after retirement. A 10-kilometre drive from Morogoro town to Seminari Street, meet an ever-smile, charming old guy, Mzee Aminiel Maro. He was very welcoming when a team of officials from the NSSF accompanied with journalists visited his home recently. On Wednesday last week, at around 8am when the team was about to reach the Seminari Street called Mzee Maro for giving direction to his house. Upon the call, as he was giving the directive Mzee Maro stood right in the middle of the street outside his compound ensuring that a car carrying the team do not get lost. When he saw the car coming from a little bit far, he acted like a traffic police officer---he stretched his arms showing direction to his house. He offered a warm welcome to the team, spending few minutes to make the team familiarize with his home before an interview. The 70-year-old man, who had retired in 2010, said he started white-collar job in 1972 as primary school teacher. He had been teaching primary schools and later secondary schools until 2000’s when he was employed at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) as Dean of Students. He was active member of the NSSF, ensuring that his monthly contributions reached the NSSF. “My employer was regularly submitting my contributions, and I was also making follow-ups to check if my contributions are submitted,” he explained. Mzee Maro retired in 2010, but 10 years down the line he now brags about his life after retirement---with several achievements made from his lump sum and monthly pension. “When the NSSF gave me my lump sum after retiring I used the money to build three apartments for renting in Dar es Salaam,” Mzee Maro said, noting that the house in Morogoro where he currently lives he had built it before retiring. The money he invested into real estate earned him an income that he used to start livestock keeping within his compound in his Morogoro residence. He keeps cattle, goats and domestic pigs. He has employed some youth to help serve the cattle from which he also earns income by selling milk and meat. “My monthly pension helps me to pay these youth their salaries,” he said, adding: “Pensions are very helpful during this age when we can no longer work.” “If you know how life after retirement is, you will never take your contributions out of pension funds. I confirm that my life is good.” Another retiree, Agnes Mchome who also resides in Morogoro Region, has a unique revelation. Whereas majority of workers in retiring age eagerly wait to collect their lump sum from the NSSF after serving tens of years in jobs, for this old woman is something different. The former staff of the NSSF Morogoro regional office retired in 2017, but did not collect her lump sum, instead, she invested in the fixed deposits in one of local banks. “I didn’t prefer investing it in business because for people like me who spend much of life time in office we don’t have experience in doing business is likely to fail,” she argued. Upon retiring she approached bank officials for advice on how she could invest in fixing the fixed deposits and generate monthly income. “I now receive money in terms of pension from the NSSF and the return from the bank every month. This makes me have enough money to afford living, I find myself happy with my retirement benefits,” she explained. Mzee Nasib Chande (71), also retiree in Morogoro region, told the 'Daily News' that he retired in 2009 and received his lump sum which he used to repair his house and on other needs. Since then he has been receiving his monthly pension to sustain his living which he admitted to help him maintain his health. “I don’t see a necessity to borrow loans because of monthly pension I receive…I see some of my fellow old men here in the streets are forced to work for security companies to earn income for living despite their age, but I am lucky that I still have income,” he said. Apart from the retirees, the NSSF also has another scheme for dependents of a member who has died. Ms Frida Maliyabwana, a widow residing at Kiunga road Street in Morogoro, is one of beneficiaries of this benefit because her deceased husband was a member of the NSSF. Ms Maliyabwana explained that she has bought farms, built rooms for renting and also uses the pension for paying school fees for her children. Her husband left her with five children, admitting that the pension is real helpful in meeting needs of her children. “NSSF pays me in time every month like a salaried worker, the money helped me to buy farms, build some rooms for renting…I don’t know what could happen without the NSSF,” she said while thanking her late husband for joining the NSSF. Commenting, NSSF Morogoro Regional Manager Rose Meta said they pay the retirees after conducting verification. The verification exercise is conducted between December and March of every year. However, this year the exercise could not be conducted due to Covid-19, and therefore the regional office plans to do verification from next December to March 2021. “We encourage the retirees to come for verification because that could enable them even access loans from financial services,” Ms Meta stated. Under Tanzanian laws, old-age pension (public- and private- sector programmes) are those with age of 60 years old with at least 180 months of contributions. The contribution requirement is reduced for workers who become covered at older ages, ranging from 165 months (if age 45) to 45 months (if aged 55 to 59) of contributions. Employment must cease. When presenting 2020/21 budget speech for his office, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said pension funds of the NSSF and the Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF) have been doing important job in paying pensions and other benefits to retirees in the public and private sectors. During a period between July and December last year the two schemes paid lump sum and other benefits amounting to 1.4tri/- to 206,897 members and monthly payment totalling 51.7bn/- was paid to retirees.