ZANZIBAR scholars have been reminded of their essential role of generating constructive ideas to propel the country's social and economic development. Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) candidate for the Isles presidency, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, speaking at the party's youth wing—UVCCM—organised debate at the State University of Zanzibar (SUZA), challenged all intellectuals in the country to guide the government in generating and executing concrete development strategies. "Scholars serve as the think-tank and hope of any serious government...you have the responsibility to guide the government in generating tangible ideas and executing beneficial policies and programmes for the people," Dr Mwinyi said at Dr Ali Mohamed Shein Hall. The presidential hopeful said  that should Zanzibaris endorse him for the country's top job, he would form an attentive government that will accommodate all ideas by intellectuals and ordinary wananchi. He identified unemployment as the most serious problem that he would strive to address but said, "The best and lasting solution (to unemployment) will emanate from your propositions." Dr Mwinyi, however, hinted that the readily available solution to unemployment is the exhaustive exploitation of the huge potentials in the blue economy. He reiterated the need for all political parties to conduct peaceful and decent campaigns. "Our peace and harmony have no alternative...we have to conduct decent campaigns that will produce good leaders to sustain our social and economic development," he said. Earlier, Professor Razack Lokina described the blue economy as a huge economic resource, which has not been exploited fully for the benefit of Zanzibaris. He cited transportation, fishing, tourism, fish farming and energy—oil and gas—as virgin areas, which still yearn for serious exploitation. "The ocean offers massive wealth because it provides many valuable products and services," argued the University of Dar es Salaam's don, adding that the blue economy contributes nine per cent of the global economy although its contribution to Zanzibar's remains dismal, sat two per cent. The scholar proposed massive investment in deep sea fishing, saying the country is losing substantial revenues due to reliance on shallow water fishing - using boats, canoes and catboats  with only foreign ships accessing deep sea waters. According to Professor Lokina, international fishing ships, which are essentially after tuna, have the by-catch rate of 45 per cent, implying that almost half of their catches are unwanted but they cannot offload them in the country due to lack of landing port. SUZA Vice-Chancellor Dr Zakia Mohammed Abubakar challenged the youth to remain firm and reject any attempts by politicians to sway them. He described the young generation that constitutes over 60 per cent of the population as a great national treasure. UVCCM Deputy Secretary, Zanzibar, Mussa  Haji Mussa, described the special dialogue as a designed platform for Zanzibar youth to deliberate on their proper participation in peaceful election campaigns and ensuring that CCM emerges victorious.