THE National Convention for Construction and Reform- Mageuzi, popularly known as NCCR–Mageuzi has pointed out two major challenges, which made it delay official launching of its election campaigns in Kwela and Sumbawanga Urban constituencies, Rukwa region. The party’s Commissioner and spokesperson in Rukwa Region, Mr Patrick Saruhanga told the ‘Daily News’ via phone interview that one of their candidates was involved in a road accident. “The candidate for Kwela constituency parliamentary seat, Solomon Pengo, failed to officially launch his election campaigns on August 17th 2020, because he sustained injuries after his vehicle overturned at Ndarambo village along the Tunduma -Sumbawanga Highway in Songwe Region,” said Mr Saruhanga. He further said after the accident, he was rushed and admitted at Rukwa Regional Referral Hospital here in Sumbawanga for treatment, adding: “Though, he has been discharged, but he is currently in Dar es Salaam for further treatment.” However, he continued to say that the NCCR --Mageuzi was still waiting for medical report(s) to decide on when Mr Pengo will officially launch his election campaigns. Mr Pengo is expected to face stiff competition from Deus Sangu from ruling party CCM and Naftali Ngongo from Chadema. In Sumbawanga Urban constituency, Mr Saruhanga said the party has fielded, Ms Doris Kafuku, to contest the seat being the first woman ever in the history of the constituency in the region to vie for such a political post. “Our candidate Ms Kafuku will not officially launch her election campaigns on September 13th (Sunday), because her timetable has collided with the one of the ruling party- CCM and some two political parties. “We have agreed that CCM will launch its campaigns on that date, while NCCR--Mageuzi will officially launch its campaigns on September 20th 2020,” he explained. Ms Kafuku is expected to face a neck to tie competition from the incumbent, Aish Hilaly, who is seeking reelection for the third time. Other candidates are Shadrack Malila (Chadema), Mr Suleiman Abdallah Sinani (ACT- Wazalendo), Mr Julius Mizengo (CUF) and Mr Michael Lubava (UDP).