THE National Ranching Company Limited (NARCO) says it has set aside more than 200m/- that would go towards establishing a new ranch in Muleba District, Kagera Region. Making the revelation here yesterday, NARCO  acting Director General, Masele Shilagi further said the ranch with 67- hectares would be named as 'Mwisa II' and grouped into at least 89 blocks of different sizes. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’, he noted that the arrangement would bring to 16 the number of ranches owned by the state -owned company. He further said the establishment is  part of NARCO’s strategies to improve performance of the livestock sector in the country, and as well limit frequent conflicts between livestock keepers and farmers competing for confined land space for their individual activities. As part of preliminary stages, Mr Shilagi said that NARCO had already spent at least 140m/- to develop the new envisioned area, which includes surveying the said 89 blocks. “We have freely distributed at least 1,000 plots to residents, who have been residing inside the ranching areas," he added. The Director General equally noted that the establishment of the major facility was an important step for them to invest largely and professionally in local areas. According to Mr Shilagi, NARCO had so far developed a crucial roadmap for the implementation of the strategic programme that would overhaul and improve the livestock keeping industry in the country for Tanzania to ensure the sector plays a vital role in fast-tracking a pace of industrialization drive in the country. “The livestock sector is crucial in fast -tracking the country's industrial economy, and thus, we are well prepared to ensure farmers are keeping their livestock in more professional and suitable areas,’’ he said. Expounding further on the plans, the Acting Director General said plans were also afoot to start training livestock keepers on best animal breeds, and as well impart to them key knowledge on how best to keep their livestock more professional. “We’re also planning to train our staff so that they can cope with modern livestock keeping technologies, and we are planning also to recruit more staff to facilitate the company’s delivering ability,” he expressed. Recently, the company implemented a useful exercise of demarcating and fencing all its ranching blocks. According to him, the exercise was targeting to curb illegal invasion to ranching areas. In his remarks during the climax of this year’s Nanenane exhibitions, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the fifth phase government, through NARCO, would set aside enough grazing areas in all districts within the country. At least two potential investors from Egypt and Namibia have already lodged applications to invest into meat processing industries. A total of 120 giant and 200 small scale investors are currently with diverse contracts with the state- owned company in different regions in Tanzania.