SIMBA midfielder Clatous Chama described the second goal he scored against Biashara United on Sunday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam as one of his best. The Zambian playmaker contributed two goals and was actively involved in other two goals in their 4- 0 demolition of the Mara based outfits, who suffered their first loss of this season’s Mainland Premier League. The defending champions went rampage as they shrugged off the past 1-1 disappointing draw against Mtibwa Sugar at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro. On his Instagram wall where he posted the video clip of his second goal, Chama wrote: “This one was special. I was not trying to hurt anyone; I was just trying to make it easier for me to score using my preferred foot.” The goal came after he received a neat and timely assist from Louis Miquissone, who sliced the ball to Chama and the latter controlled it with a left foot and, in a blink of an eye, he shifted the ball to his right foot before unleashing a bullet into the far corner of goal. It was really a great performance from last season’s Most Valuable Player (MVP) and his latest performance speaks volume of what a sort of players he is. In another development, the management of Simba has urged members and fans of the club to build a culture of buying tickets in advance prior to the match day, to avoid encountering inconveniences. This was said by the club’s Information Officer Haji Manara, in a response to complaints from their fans, who failed to have access to the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on Sunday due to technical hitches to get electronic tickets. “Let me apologise to our fans, who experienced problems on Sunday and at the moment, we are in talks with ticket sellers to find long lasting solution to the hiccups which emerged,” he said. Again, Manara revealed that entry charges for their Saturday’s top flight league tie against Gwambina FC remain unchanged, which is 3,000/ - for common seats, 5,000/- for VIP C, while VIP B and A will trade at 10,000/- and 15,000/- respectively. “The main setback we face is that some people prefer to buy tickets on the match day, something which create overcrowding at the stadium,” noted Manara. Meanwhile, Simba beat First Division side (FDL) African Lyon 2-0 in a strength testing match at the Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Striker Crispine Mugalu netted the opener in the 46t h minute after receiving a flipped ball by Ibrahim Ajib. Charles Ilanfya doubled the lead in the 54t h minute with superb sneak header, connecting home a Gadiel Michael’s cross from the left side. Lyon managed to contain Simba in the first half but things turned around in the second half as the giants took charge of the game. Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck featured players who have not regularly played this season including veteran defender Erasto Nyoni, goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya and newly signed defenders David Kameta and Ibrahim Ame.