Yet another school fire! On Monday, September 14, fire gutted a dormitory of Byamungu Islamic Primary School, in Kyerwa District, Kagera Region, claiming the lives of 10 pupils and injuring many others. As is usually the case, the police promised to conduct a thorough investigation to establish the cause of the inferno and to bring culprits to book. While the police force’s concern, of pinning down the culprits is the right thing to do, it would be equally sensible to cast the net wider and establish whether fire precautions were observed, in the construction and use of these building. There is a whole body of knowledge on that subject. Depending on the use of the building, you may have to use materials that can resist fire for a long period. You must have easily accessible fire escape routes. You need some “first aid” facilities to deal with a fire outbreak such as fire extinguishers and fire alarms. Precautions are required when it comes to installation and use of electricity and gas facilities. Building users need regular drills to equip them with what to do in case of a fire outbreak, etc. Come to think of it, do political parties have “fire precautions in buildings” in their election manifestos? It is time we set up a commission of enquiry to establish the state of safety in buildings in Tanzania especially those that are used by many people. Without getting at the root cause of why fires erupt and spread fast in our buildings, we will continue to lament these happenings, attributing them to divine Providence. It is for that reason that we agree with the writer of the editorial, in the Good Citizen of September 16 entitled: “Time to Get to the Bottom of Frequent School Fires” (p. 6), who, in paragraph two, has this to say: “It is ‘worth’ noting that it was the fourth time that a fire had broken out at a school in less that three months”. Using the words “worth” and “worthy” can be tricky. “Worth” is used both as a noun and an adjective, in both cases, referring to “value”. “Worthy” is also a noun and an adjective, meaning: “Having qualities which deserve any recognition or action”. In the editorial being referred to, I would stick out my neck and go for “worthy” instead of “worth”: “It is ‘worthy’ noting that, this was the fourth time that a fire had broken out at a school in less that three months”. A survivor shared his experience with the Citizen, as is reported in an item titled: “Boy, 11, narrates how he escaped from school inferno” (p. 3): “He said he was lucky as he did not suffer ‘huge’ injuries”. Now, instead of “huge injuries”, I would go for “serious injuries”. This is corroborated by an official of the Hospital: “Nyakahanga Hospital’s ‘medical in charge’ said, compared with other victims, the boy had only suffered burns by 3 per cent”. “Medical in charge?” No! “Medical” is an adjective and has got to be converted into a noun to suit the circumstances. This can be achieved by adding “officer” to “medical” and thus get “medical officer in charge”. Among the fire victims, was an 8 year boy whose father is reported to have, previously, lost: “his nine-year-old daughter after being blown up by a gas ‘canister’ at their home”. “Canister?”, No. “Cylinder”, Yes: “The father lost: “his nine-year-old daughter after she was blown up by a gas ‘cylinder’ at their home”. Finally, we join this Good Citizen Reporter in Chanika, in a story entitled: “Family demands DNA tests for infant’s body at city morgue”. A young mother gave birth through caesarian section at a health centre in Chanika, it being reported that “she had been unconsciousness”. Nurses told her that her child had “unhealthy conditions” and was transferred to a larger hospital. A later story was that the child had died but the parents: “refused to collect the lifeless body of the baby demanding DNA tests”. The mother was unconscious; the child had “medical conditions”; and, “lifeless” is a redundant adjective to describe a dead body in a morgue. Looking forward to heartening stories next week! lusuggakironde@gmail.com