THE National Electoral Commission (NEC) has insisted it will not tolerate any candidates who violate the election guidelines despite threats from some ill-intentioned politicians. NEC Director Dr Wilson Mahera said here yesterday that it will remain steadfast in ensuring that the ongoing campaign rallies aren’t thrown into disrepute as Tanzanians prepare for the upcoming General Election. “The commission will remain vigilant and summon whoever tries to violate the campaigns and the election process as a whole,” vowed Dr Mahera in his meeting with religious leaders, politicians, civil societies and the media. According to Dr Mahera, some of NEC officials were now being threatened by some politicians, vowing that they will not be cowed by anyone or institution in their quest of becoming a credible electoral management body in Africa. NEC’s stance comes a few days after it warned some candidates against announcing their premature victories even before the process of voting begins. In its position, the Commission maintained that it was the only body vested with powers to announce winners after counting and tallying of votes. In his Sunday Press Conference, Dr Mahera accused Mr Tundu Lissu, who is the Chadema presidential candidate of issuing such utterances in his rallies across the country. The Commission has since summoned to question him over the utterances as well as his untrue statement that President John Magufuli, who is seeking reelection, summoned Returning Officers from District Councils to Dodoma to plan how to rig the election. In his clarification to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday afternoon Dr Mahera maintained the Commission had written Mr Lissu, summoning him to appear before the national electoral body’s Ethics Committee. “NEC has an Ethics Committee at each Constituency, meaning that he is not obliged to report to the electoral body’s head office in Dodoma," Dr Mahera insisted. According to the director of elections, Mr Lissu can report to any NEC office in the constituency where he is. In the same vein, the commission appealed to the candidates vying for different elective positions to shun inciting their members during the campaigns. He urged the parties to adhere to strict campaign schedules, particularly finishing their rallies as specified by the commission. “Whoever wishes to extend or change their schedules ought to inform us in advance,” he said. The NEC Director further revealed that a total of 97 internal election observers had been approved by the commission, while 18 from outside the country had been allowed to take part in their role as observers. He assured Tanzanians that preparations for the upcoming polls were complete by 80 per cent. NEC has endorsed a record 15 candidates to vie for the Union presidency in the 2020 General Elections. Candidates cleared include Dr John Magufuli (CCM), Mr Leopold Mahona (NRA), Mr John Shibuda (ADA-Tadea), Mr Mutamwega Mgaywa (SAU), Mr Jeremiah Maganja (NCCR), Ms Cecilia Mbaga (DM), Prof Ibrahim Lipumba (CUF) and Mr Philipo Fumbo (DP). Others are Mr Bernard Membe (ACT-Wazalendo), Ms Queen Sendiga (ADC), Mr Hashim Rungwe (Chaumma), Mr Khalfan Mazrui (UMD), Mr Said Maalim Seif (AAFP), Mr Twalib Kadege (UPDP) and Mr Tundu Lissu (Chadema). At least 29 million Tanzanians are expected to go to the polls on October 28 this year in a General Election that will cost the commission 331bn/-.