“GREAT  EXPECTATIONS”,   is  the  title  of  a  book   which  I  enjoyed  reading  during  my  University  student  days.   It  was   written  by  Charles  Dickens,  a  renowned  English  novelist    who  lived  between  1812  and  1870.   I  have  borrowed  the  words  of  that  book’s  title  for  use  in  this  article,  precisely  because  they  appear  to  offer  the  most  accurate  rendition  of  the  Opposition  parties’  desired,  but  most  obviously   unachievable,   goal  of  “removing  CCM  from  power”.  I  have  described   such  desire,  or  ambition  by  the  Opposition  parties  as  obviously  unachievable  (in  this  forthcoming   October  2020  general  elections),  for   equally  obvious  and  cogent  reasons,  which  will  be  explained  in  this  article.  Can   CCM be  removed  from  power? The  answer  is  that  it  depends  entirely  on   the  prevailing  circumstances  at  the  material  time. CCM  can,  theoretically,   be  removed  from  power  at  any  given   general  election,  if  it  fails  to  obtain  enough  votes  that  would  enable  it  to  retain  power.   In  other   words,  if  CCM  loses  that  election.    And  that,  is   indeed  the  essence,  and  the   principal  product,   of    all  multi-party  political  competitions   everywhere  in  the  world.  But  such  an  eventuality  cannot  possibly   occur,  merely  as  a  result  of  a   selfish  campaign  crusade,  or  of  such    forlorn  desire   by  the  Opposition  parties,  who  are   merely   seeking   to  acquire   that  power  themselves  by   simply   replacing  CCM   ‘in  the  driver’s  seat’.  Such  attempts  are  bound  to  fail,  mainly   because   CCM  can only   be  removed  from  power  on  much  more  solid  grounds,   when   the  majority  of  the  voters,  in  their  own   honest  assessment,    become  convinced  that  CCM  has  totally  failed  them  in  their  expectations.                                                   The   relevant  factors  that  could   contribute  to  such  a  situation,   would  be:  (i)  A  miserable  failure  by  CCM,   to  implement   its   own  election  manifesto;  (ii)  Some  abhorrent,  or  unethical  conduct  such  as  corruption  or  Ufisadi,   manifested   by   its political  operatives,  particularly  those  who  occupy  leadership   positions    at  the  apex  of  the  national  leadership   pyramid. (ii)  the   insatiable  ambitions  of  its  top  national  leader  who  might  wish  to  overstays   in  office,   to  such  an  annoying  extent  that  the  voters  just  decide  to  get  rid  of  him  (together   with  his  political  party)!      It  is  therefore  my  contention  that,  in  the  absence  of  such  negative   factors,  as  is  currently   the  case   with  regard   to  CCM;  the   prospect  of  CCM  being  removed  from  power,    is  a  very  dim  and  distant  possibility.  The  worrying  circumstances  of  2015 It  could  be   possible,  that  the  Opposition  parties  are  drawing  false  hopes  from  what  happened  in  the  2015  Presidential  election,  when  the  CHADEMA  candidate,  Edward  Lowassa,  came  close  enough  to   defeating   the  CCM  candidate,   Dr. John  Pombe  Magufuli.    But  these  would  appear  to  be  false,   or  forlorn  hopes;  because  they   seem  to  be  based  on  an  unfortunate   misunderstanding  of  the  facts  of  that   particular  event.  In  respect  thereof,  I   would   humbly  submit   that   the  2015  Presidential  election  was,  purely  accidentally,  shrouded   in   an   abnormal  atmosphere  of  unpredictability  regarding  the  outcome  of  that  election;    an  extraordinary    situation  which  cannot   be  relied  upon  to  reappear  this  year,   nor even   at  any  other  foreseeable  time  in  the  near  future.  The  general  political  atmosphere  in  the  country  during  the  2015  Presidential  election  campaigns,  was   indeed   abnormal;  being   filled  with  a mixture  of  contrasting  expectations   regarding  the  outcome  of  that  election;  for  the  simple  reason  that  two  of  the  leading  candidates,  Dr.  John  Pombe  Magufuli  of  CCM,  and  Edward  Ngoyai  Lowassa   of  CHADEMA;   were  of  seemingly  equal,  or  near  equal  appeal,  to  the  majority  of  the  electorate.  In  addition,  the   Opposition  party’s  candidate,  Edward  Lowassa,  was  all  the  time   exuding    magnificent   confidence,   that  he  was  going  to  win  the  Presidency,  “before  the  end   of  the  second  Mass”,   as  he   himself   confidently  declared.  (election day  was  on  Sunday).   Thus,  for  him  and  his  enthusiastic   followers,  they  were  only   anxiously  waiting  for  ‘the  day  of  reckoning’ (election  day)   to  arrive,   for  them  to  just  confirm  their   “great   expectations”.  On  the  their  part,    the  CCM  members  and  supporters,  were  treading   cautiously  along  the   campaign  path,   in  the  circumstances,  unable  to  predict  victory. Then  there  were  those  who  preferred   to  just   “wait  and  see”;   but    were    generally  apprehensive  of  what  might  happen  when  the  results  of  the  Presidential  election  were  announced.    Their  fears  were  based  mainly  on  ‘the  fear  of  the  unknown'  syndrome,  worried   by    what   had  happened  in  neighbouring   Kenya,  which  had  experienced  very  big  trouble  as  a  result  of  their  2007  Presidential  election.     They   kept   on  saying   “you  never  know  what  may  happen” .  They  were  obviously   overburdened   by  the  weight  of   feelings  of   fear  and  apprehension,   regarding   what  might  happen,  and   not  of  what   will actually   happen.  This   was   the  exceptional    political  situation  prevailing  in  the  country  during  the  2015  Presidential   election,   containing  a  rich  mixture  of  joyous  expectations  and    of  excitements;    as  well  as  those  of  fears  and   apprehensions.     It  was   an  exceptional  situation   which  does   not  qualify  to  be  taken  as  a  binding,  or  even  as  a  guiding,  precedent.  The  primary  reason  for  this  extraordinary   situation  appears  to  have  been  the   high  calibre  of  the  leading  Presidential   contestants.  The  top  contestants  in  the  2015 Presidential  election  race were:    Dr. John  Pombe  Magufuli  of  CCM;  and  Edward  Ngoyai  Lowassa  of  CHADEMA.    Even   our  own  experience  of  previous  Presidential  elections,   shows  that  where  the  contest  is  between  candidates  of  seemingly  equal (or  near  equal)  appeal  to  the  electorate,  the  contest  always  becomes  hot  and  exciting.  This,  apparently,  is  how  human  nature  ordinarily  responds  to  such  events.  William  Shakespeare,  that  famous  English  dramatist,  wrote  the  following  lines  in  his  Play  titled  Measure  for  Measure:-  “Oh,  it  is  excellent  to  have  a  giant’s  strength.    But  it  is  tyrannous  to  use  it  like  a  giant”. In  the  context  of  the  2015  Presidential  election,  candidates   Magufuli,   and   Lowassa    were   each perceived   to  have  the   (political)  “giant’s  strength”.     Both  of  them   had  developed  their  vast   leadership  experience  within  CCM,  each  having  held  prominent   national - level  leadership  positions  in  the  CCM  government  for   many  years  consecutively.    And   for  the   2015  Presidential  election,  both  had  sought  CCM’s   nomination  to  become   that    party’s   election  candidate.  At  the  end  of  the  day,   it   was   Dr.  John  Pombe  Magufuli   who,   rather  unexpectedly,   secured  the   CCM  nomination.    Terribly  disappointed  and   dissatisfied,  and   in  a  manifest  demonstration  of  protest,   Edward   Lowassa   immediately   defected  to  the  Opposition  camp,  and  joined  CHADEMA;   who  readily  offered  him  the  coveted  nomination   as  their  chosen   candidate  for  that  year’s  Presidential  election.  That  is  how  the  game  of   this  “contest  between  giants”   became  created,   obviously  more   by  accident  rather   than  by  design.   And  that  particular   factor  of   a  ‘contest  between  giants’   of  nearly  equal  political   strength,   was  the  principal  reason  for  CCM  and  its  supporters  to  worry  about  the  unpredictability   of   the    possible  outcome   of  this  election.  Furthermore,  having  got  onto  the  campaign  stage,   Opposition    candidate  Edward   Lowassa’s    performance  was    approximately   equivalent,   in  the  words  of  Shakespeare,  to   “using  his   giant’s  strength   like  a  giant”.    I wish  to   emphasize   that  this   was  an  exceptional  situation,  that  cannot  be  reasonably   relied  upon  to  reappear,   any  time  soon.  There  was  also  the  factor  that   this  was  a  competition  between  an  entirely  new  team  of   candidates;   since  the  incumbent  President  Jakaya  Kikwete  was  then   completing  his  second  term  in  office,  and  was  therefore  not  in  the  list  of contestants.   This  conveniently  eliminated  the  hidden  factor  of  some  voters  being  influenced  by  certain muted  considerations,  such  as  loyalty  to  the  President  who  is  seeking  re-election.  All   of   these  factors   are  presently   absent We  have  made  the  little  digression   above  to  discuss  the  exceptional  situation  of  the  2015  Presidential  election,   primarily   in  order  to  disabuse  the   seemingly  misguided  Opposition’s  belief,   that  they  will  “remove  CCM  from  power”    at  the  forthcoming  October  2020  general  election!  That,   indeed,    is  a  misguided  belief  because  the  Opposition  appears  to  be  basing   such  forlorn  hopes  on  that  ‘one  off’  accidental   performance  by   their  Presidential  candidate  Edward  Lowassa,  in   the  2015  Presidential  election.  I  sincerely  hope  that   the  facts  produced  in  this  presentation,   will  help  to   convince  them,   that  such  ‘windfall   profit’   cannot  possibly  be  reasonably  expected  to  be  made  again   in  this  year’s  general  election,  nor,  indeed,  at  any  time  soon!  It  is  my  firm  contention,  that   the  Opposition’s    exceptional   2015  electoral  performance,   was  certainly     not  based   on  their  own   inherent  electoral   strength.  It   was based   rather  on   the  personal   electoral   appeal   of  their  then  Presidential  candidate,   Edward  Lowassa.  Now  that   the  said   Edward  Lowassa  is  no  longer  with  the  Opposition  camp;  having  wisely  'returned  home’  to  CCM  soon  after   having  failed  to  achieve  his  personal   ambition  of  winning  the  Presidency.  This  then   reminds  me  of  the  interesting   Bible  story,  that   of  Samson,   a  character  of  extraordinary  bodily  strength,  whose  strength  is  said  to  have  been   rooted  in  the hair  on  his  head;    who,  in  the  course  of  his  life  like  most  other  men,  fell  in  love  with  a  woman  called   Delila.  Subsequently ,  upon  gentle  persuasion  by   Delila  whom  he  dearly  loved,   Samson   revealed   to  her,   the  secret  source  of  his  magic  strength,  namely  the   hair  on  his  head.    Unfortunately,    unknown   to   Samson,    Delila   was  in  fact  a conspiratorial   traitor,  who  had  conspired  with  Samson’s  enemies   to  deprive  him  of  his  magic  strength.     She  soon  disclosed  Samson’s   secret   to  his  enemies;   who   then  captured  him,  and  forcibly  shove  off   his  magic  hair.  Thereafter,  Samson   lost  his  proverbial   magic  strength,  and  thus  lost  his  previous  ability  to   perform   miraculous  feats.  Edward  Lowassa   must  have  realized  that   his  political  strength  was  deeply  rooted  in  CCM.   Hence,  when   he  failed  to  perform  the  ‘miracle’  of  winning  the  Presidency  on  the  Opposition  parties’  ticket,  he  decided  to  ‘return  home’   to  CCM;   thus  depriving  the  Opposition  of  his  apparently   ‘magic’  personal  electoral   strength.   There  is  just  no  way  the  Opposition    can  defeat  CCM  at  this  year’s  Presidential   election.  In  the  ‘parliamentary  system’  of  government   which  we  inherited   from  the  British  at  the  time  of  independence;  a  political  party  becomes  the  winner  of  a  general  election  only  if  it  obtains  a  majority  of  the    available  parliamentary  seats.   Tanzania’s  electoral  history  since  the  re-introduction  of  multi-party  politics,  clearly   shows  that  CCM  has  consistently  scored  huge  parliamentary  majorities  at  each  and  every  general  election,  which  has   always  been   above  70 per cent.  Thus,  in  my  considered  opinion,   judging  from  the  statistics  shown  in  our   multi-party  election  history;   and   in  view   of  the  people’s  widespread  appreciation  and  acknowledgement  of   President  Magufuli’s   sterling  performance and  delivery,   in  implementing  the  CCM  election  manifesto;    any  serious,  intelligent  guessing,   would  lead  to  the  conclusion  that,   in  the  present  prevailing  political  circumstances ,   the  Opposition’s   forlorn  dream   of  “removing  CCM  from  power” ,  is   a   totally  unattainable  objective.  As  the  Holy  Bible Old  Testament   says  in  Ecclesiastes 9,11 – 12: “To  everything    there  is  a  season,  and  a  time  to  every  purpose  under  the  heaven”.                                                                                                  The  right   ‘season’  for  CCM’s  “removal  from  power”  has  not  yet  arrived !  And   as  the  Kiswahili  proverb  says:  “Mwenye   macho  haambiwi   tazama”. In  the  light  of  President  Magufuli’s     sterling  performance  in  managing  the  affairs  of  the  nation  during  his  first  term,   is   it   really  reasonable  to  even   imagine,  that   he   could   be   denied   such  a   well   deserved  final  term,   which  will   only   allow   him  to  complete  his   attractive, gleaming,  unfinished  business? (will  continue  next  week)  piomsekwa@gmail.com   /0754767576.