LONDON-BASED giant gold producer, African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG), is to pay 41.3 million US dollars (about 85bn/-) as withholding tax to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), which was not disbursed for four years as from 2010. This followed the decision of the Court of Appeal to dismiss with costs the appeal under which ABG, the appellant, had lodged in attempt to fault the judgment issued on March 31, 2016 by the Tax Revenue Appeals Tribunal in favour of Commissioner General of Tanzania Revenue Authority, as the respondent. “The appeal is devoid of merit. It is dismissed with costs to the respondent. Ordered accordingly,” declared a panel led by Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma and Justices Stella Mugasha and Gerald Ndika in their judgment delivered in the capital city of Dodoma recently. They noted the bone of contention arising from the ground of appeal is whether the appellant, a company incorporated outside the United Republic of Tanzania, was liable to pay withholding tax during the said years of income, as per section 66(4)(a) of the Income Tax Act of 2004. The counsel for the appellant had argued, among others, that as long as the gold mining company was incorporated in the United Kingdom, it cannot be regarded to have been either "incorporated or formed" under the laws of the United Republic. However, the advocate for the respondent supported the purposive interpretation the word "formed" appearing in section 66(4)(a) of the Act, which leads to the inevitable conclusion that the appellant is a resident in the United Republic of Tanzania for purposes of income taxation. The counsel added that although the appellant was indeed incorporated earlier in the United Kingdom; but after receiving its Certificate of Compliance from the Registrar of Companies, the appellant company is regarded as having been formed in Tanzania. On their part, the justices had this to say, “In terms of the definition of the "corporation" under section 3 of the (Act), the certificate of compliance issued by the Registrar of Companies conferred upon the appellant "a business establishment status" in Tanzania for among other purposes, income taxation.” They agreed with Tribunal's interpretation of section 66(4)(a) of the Act that once the appellant was issued with Certificate of Compliance, under section 435 of the Companies Act, he was not only acquired business place in Tanzania, but was also deemed to bear all statutory obligations under Companies Act. “Our agreement with the Tribunal's interpretation of section 66(4)(a) of the ITA, 2004 is designed to plug tax avoidance loopholes to ensure foreign companies holding certificates of compliance issued by the Registrar of Companies are regarded as tax resident companies in Tanzania,” the justices said. The appellant is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and holding shares in three mining entities in Tanzania. The three entities are Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited; North Mara Gold Mine Limited and Pangea Minerals Limited. Pangea operates Tulawaka Gold Mine and Buzwagi Gold Mine. It all began sometime in November 2012, when the respondent's tax investigation department conducted an audit on the appellant’s business activities and issued a notice under section 138 of the Income Tax Act 2004, required the appellant to produce various documents to assist the inquiry. Later, on November 19, 2012, the respondent issued yet another notice under section 139(l)(b) of the Act, requiring Mr. Deodatus Mwanyika, who was appellant's Vice President Corporate Affairs, to present himself at the office in Dar es Salaam for an interview regarding his company's tax affairs. The interview was meant to determine whether, in terms of section 66(4) (a) (b) of the Act, the appellant was a resident company in Tanzania for taxation purposes.  The respondent was satisfied that despite being incorporated in the UK, ABG was based in Tanzania for income taxation purposes. On October 8, 2013, the respondent issued the appellant with a notice that he had been registered and issued with Taxpayer Identification Number under Section 133 of the Act and a Value Added Tax Registration Number under Section 19(4) of the VAT Act, 1997. Consequently, the appellant was obliged to comply with his tax obligations in Tanzania of filing of statutory returns prescribed under the laws. As a tax resident in Tanzania, the appellant was asked to remit withholding taxes on dividend payments amounting to 81,843,127 US dollars made for the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. This sum was reduced to 41,250,426 US dollars. The appellant was dissatisfied with such demand. On November 21, 2013, the appellant filed its Statement of Appeal to initiate an appeal to the Tax Revenue Appeals Board, alleging that being a holding company incorporated in the UK, it was neither a resident company in Tanzania, nor did it conduct any business in Tanzania to attract the income tax. However, the respondent the respondent pleaded that the appellant is also a resident company in so far as it conducts its business in Tanzania through its gold mining entities of Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited, North Mara Gold Mine Limited, Tulawaka Gold Mine and the Buzwagi Gold Mine. In its decision, the Board dismissed the appeal and ordered the appellant to pay the demanded tax, a decision which was also upheld by the Tribunal.