THE government has invested adequately in cancer treatment and improved health services in the country to cut costs of overseas referrals, which not many years ago cost the country dearly. Speaking at the closing of NMB Bima Marathon 2020 in Dar es Salaam at the weekend, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the cancer treatment burden was both a fiscal glitch and development predicament not only in Tanzania, but also across the world. He said investments made in the first phase of President John Magufuli’s administration to put in place requisite infrastructure to treat cancer in the country had paid off in many aspects. “The strides made include making huge savings in terms of foreign exchange that would have been spent to treat patients overseas,” he highlighted in his speech at Mlimani City, where NMB Bank also raised 100m/- for treating children with cancer at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH). Mr Majaliwa commended NMB Bank and other stakeholders for supporting national efforts to combat non-communicable diseases (NCDs), which he said were a heavy economic burden due to high treatment costs. Citing a 2013 UNDP report, he said the cost of treating NCDs globally would rise to $47 trillion in 20 years, which could be enough to reduce the number of people living in poverty by 2.5 billion in 50 years. “I commend NMB Bank for coming up with NMB Bima Marathon to help mobilise and educate people on the importance of physical fitness exercises to reduce cancer risks,” he noted. He challenged Tanzanians to exercise more and engage in sports activities for health fitness, saying doing so was essential for dealing with NCDs and reducing high medical costs. The PM also called on the private sector to partner with the government to create public awareness on health insurance cover for better management and treatment of diseases like cancer. In his speech before handing over a 100m/- NMB Bank donation to the management of MNH, Prime Minister Majaliwa said the government had been impressed with partnerships between banks and insurance companies to provide insurance services in the country. He said the move had been timely since insurance penetration in the country remained low to the detriment of both national development and efforts to reduce the treatment cost of NCDs. The PM said despite the support of institutions like NMB Bank to support government efforts to deal with children suffering from cancer, more was still needed to combat cancer in the country. According to him, a lot has been done by the government to improve healthcare in the country, including the treatment of cancer through, among other things, enhancing health infrastructure and increasing requisite facilities and equipment as well as boosting services such as health insurance. “We have increased the health budget from 31bn/- in 2015 to 270bn/, which is a good sign of our endeavour to improve health services in the country,” he said, noting that investments being made by this administration would ensure cancer patients got quality treatment that was affordable. The figures he gave showed that the investments had benefited the country a lot and helped to boost the treatment of cancer as well as enabling the generation of foreign exchange from health tourists. Mr Majaliwa said 75m/- had been spent to acquire special beds for cancer patients, which had increased the number of people that could be hospitalised at a go between 40 and 100. He said not many years ago, the country was spending up to 10.4bn/- to treat cancer patients overseas with the number of these referrals decreasing to five people in 2019/20 compared to 164 patients in 2015. “The number of foreigners coming for cancer treatment has increased from 12 people in 2015 to reach 53 people, which is yet another good sign of the investment we are making to deal with the disease,” he noted, calling for joint efforts to further better the situation. Speaking earlier, NMB Bank leaders said the bank and its insurance partners would collaborate with the authorities in the fight against cancer, NCDs and other diseases. NMB Board Chairman, Dr Edwin Mhede, said the donation to help treat children with cancer was a good example of NMB’s readiness to use its legally generated income to support government efforts. For part, NMB CEO Ruth Zaipuna said the decision to mobilise society to contribute to the treatment of children with cancer through the charity marathon emanated from the fact that “September is Childhood Cancer Awareness Month”.