CCM Central Committee Member, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa disclosed that a sum of 25.3bn/- has been spent in the improvement of road infrastructure in Musoma Municipality, as indicated in the 2015-2020 party manifesto. Besides, through the Urban Local Government Strengthening Programme (ULGSP), another 18.7bn/- was used for the construction of a 14 kilometer road into bitumen standard and installing lights in the municipality. Mr Majaliwa observed this during a campaign rally held at Mara Secondary School, Nyamatare Ward in Musoma District on Monday. Likewise, he said the government spent 6.6bn/- dished out through Road Fund, to open up new roads and carry out major and minor maintenance, where the work has already been completed. Premier Majaliwa urged the residents of Mara to vote for CCM candidate, President John Magufuli, the party’s candidate for Musoma Rural Constituency, Vedasto Manyinyi and Masumbuko Magesa for the Ward Councillorship among others in the municipality. “I call upon the people of Mara not to hesitate to vote for Dr Magufuli regardless of their political affiliation, because he will bring further development in the country,” said Mr Majaliwa. The PM cited the water campaign, which aims to ease water woes and help women who walk for long distances in search of the precious liquid in the district. “In a move to make the precious liquid easily accessible in Musoma Town, a total of 46bn/- was dished out for the construction of a major clean water project, and people have started benefiting from it,” noted the PM. Also, he added that Musoma Municipality and three villages in Musoma Rural and Butiama received 18bn/- for the implementation of a water distribution project. The money consists of the construction of a water tank with a capacity of holding three million litres, booster station, and installation of water pipes which will transport water to Bharima water tank among other tasks. In another development, a retired minister in the fourth phase government, Mr Stephen Wassira called on residents of Musoma Municipality to choose CCM candidates because the party maintains a comprehensive election manifesto. “If we ask people to go and vote for us, we actually mean you should choose leaders with a comprehensive manifesto and not otherwise. CCM has good and clear policies, which is the reason why we are encouraging you to vote for its candidates.We cannot vote for people we have just met on the streets. A President is the head of state, head of a government and the Commander in Chief…I urge you to vote for President Magufuli because he can be all this,” said Mr Wassira. The former minister cited some of the major work carried out under President Magufuli’s administration in Mara Region to include completion of Kwangwa Hospital in just three years, while the construction was at a standstill for the past 40 years. “The decision to build the hospital started way back since the TANU declaration of 1974, and was authorized by the party’s general assembly in the same year…by then there was no budget. It has taken very long because of the nature of the time…self-reliance, due to small contributions,” he said.