PALEONTOLOGISTS believe that the first ancestor of big cats evolved between 65 and 62 million years ago in what is known today as Eurasia continent. Due to different environmental factors the ancient cat was forced to migrate to Americas about 20 million years ago when another ancient big cat known as saber toothed cat evolved between 42 and 11 million years ago, this species was followed by scimitar toothed cat which evolved about 4 million years ago. Weighing about 190 kilograms, the scimitar toothed cat is regarded as the true ancestor of modern big cat including the leopard which evolved in ancient African savannah about 3 billion years ago before crossing to Asia and establish the first generation of these feline who started to migrate to other parts of the world about 5 million years ago. One other side biologists say that was possible because leopards are exceptionally adaptable, they are capable to change their behaviors to meet any environment in any part of the world although what we see the populations thrive anywhere in the species range where grasslands, woodlands, and riverine forests remain largely undisturbed and evidently this indicate the cat is mostly associated with savannah and rainforest in modern Africa, Asia, Europe and south America. Historians believe that geological and metrological changes in what is known today as continent of Africa created a new weather pattern about 8 million years ago when the rift valley reached the northern part of modern Tanzania, this caused the decrease of amount of rainfall and resulted into the expansion savannah as one of the first generation of true African leopard evolved about 6.3 million years ago. Historians say that was one longest migration to be recorded in books of history because from Africa they had to go all the way to Europe where about 1.5 million years ago some of them had to swim into sea water for more than 82 kilometers to cross the Atlantic Ocean through the Bering Strait which enabled them to reach south America. On the other side, history shows that fossils of early true leopard ancestors have been found in East Africa and South Asia from about 3.5 million years ago but the modern leopard is suggested to have evolved in Africa between 470,000 and 825,000 years ago and travelled across Asia between 170,000 and 300,000 years ago. Scientists say 3.5 million years ago the global average temperature was 23 °C higher than today and the Northern hemisphere ice sheet was temporary before the onset of extensive glaciation over Greenland that occurred about 3 million years ago. At the same time the global topographies continued to get effects of underneath volcanic activities as continents continued to drift, moving from positions possibly as far as 250 kilometers from their present locations to positions only 70 kilometers from their current locations and scientists believe that it was during that period when the continents of Africa and Europe came closer to form the Mediterranean Sea. Different scientific researches indicate that three million years ago different weather changes took place but a cooler, dry, seasonal climate had considerable impacts on vegetation because it reduced tropical species worldwide. Deciduous forests proliferated, coniferous forests and tundra covered much of the north, and grasslands spread on all continents while tropical forests were limited to a tight band around the equator, and in addition to dry savannahs and deserts appeared in Asia and Africa. Fossils indicate that about three million years ago the ancestors of a true leopard moved from Africa and pass through ancient Europe in what is known today as Italy, Spain, Portugal and France to central parts of the continent in Germany and England before turning their attention westward to Hungary and Czech between 600,000 and 24,000 years ago. History shows that before that time the big cat family was going through a complex evolution process which resulted into evolution of a tiger and snow leopard about 1.8 million years ago.The snow leopard, also known as the ounce, is a large cat native to the mountain ranges of Central and South Asia. This unique mammal inhabits alpine and subalpine zones at elevations from 3,000 to 4,500 meters ranging from eastern Afghanistan, the Himalayas and the Tibetan Plateau, to southern Siberia, Mongolia and western China, in the northern range countries, it also lives at lower elevations. Meanwhile the leopard is found in about nine subspecies, the Indian leopard, the Arabian leopard, the Amur leopard, the Anatolian leopard of southwest Asia also called the Persian leopard or Asia Minor leopard, the Indochinese leopard, the Javan leopard is a leopard subspecies of the Indonesian island of Java, Sri Lankan leopard and the snow leopard is a large cat native to the mountain ranges of Central and South Asia. The African leopard is elusive, solitary and largely nocturnal predator which its activities varies depending on the habitat and type of the prey and availability. Elegantly the ferocious cat is decorated with furs ranging from pale yellow to deep gold and tawny which is bejeweled with black rosettes while the head, lower limbs and belly are spotted with solid black. Like other cats, a leopard is incapable to see in a complete darkness, it needs at least dim light from the Moon in order to distinguish objects at night, its eyes have a special reflective layer behind the retina which allows light that has not been absorbed when it passes through the retina to stimulate the retina a second time and provide good vision in poor light. It is this layer that makes leopard’s eyes to appear glowing in the dark hours and terrifies all people who happen to encounter with this big cat, scientists the eyes do not produce light what is seen originates from the Moon which flashes on them. A Leopard is also equipped with long whiskers powered by strong sensory glands with flexible mechanism that function to enable the cat to avoid objects on its way to a hunting expedition in the middle of the tropical forest where light is limited around the clock. When the cat passes through deep into the forest its long whiskers use the sensory glands to detect different objects that touch it, besides this mechanism, above each eye they have protective gears which take care of any falling or hanging object. In addition, a leopard uses its nose to determine the temperature, as well as smelling scents from a prey hiding deep in a forest, this is done when the cat pass its nose on the ground, trees and grasses and on air to collect all required information, this done through a special olfactory organ on the roof of the mouth called a Jacobson’s organ. When all the above mentioned strategies fail a leopard will depend on its ears to peak any sound on air, the cat has an ability to hear high-frequency sounds that humans are unable to pick, this always help the cat to hear what is happening under the ground where a mole rat may be digging a tunnel. Leopard have an extraordinary ability which depends on the flexible external ears of the cat which depend on about 30 muscles which make enable them to turn as much as 180 degrees to locate sounds precisely. From Ruaha, Tarangire, Mkomazi and other national parks lions follow and attack their prey after getting closer at a distance of between 50 to 30 meters but leopards dont waste their energy unscrupulously like that, when the cat sights a potential target it will crawl and shoot forward with its tail and head lowed, legs bent while making clever use of vegetation cover. On other side, from Udzungwa mountain, Mount Kilimanjaro national park to Katavi national park, to prove its smartness, a leopard may pursue a target slowly over distances of a few hundred meters, or wait in a prime location for an ambush when a prey moves towards its direction, at night time when an antelope depend on their big ears to peak any incoming warning sound the cat will walk slowly to a position where it can attack its victim. Leopard’s paw has soft materials which enable them to walk towards its victims without producing any sound, the cat prefers to hide or get closer to its target for about five or seven meters then speedily it leap forward six meters. Scientists say once the cat is within a range of about 10 meters, it will dash forward at a top speed of 58 meters per hour and use its powerful fore legs equipped with retractable sharp, hooked claws of each paw to bring down a prey. Scientists say leopard is an ambush predator, their successful hunting techniques depend on crouching low to sneak up to their prey and attack suddenly before it has a chance to react, the elusive feline will careful choose and use the surrounding vegetation to camouflage with its black rosettes. A leopard is an opportunistic hunter which is able to utilize any possible chance at its disposal, as it is relaxing on a branch of a tree it may drop its whole weight on a grazing antelope quickly the leopard will force the prey into the ground while using its powerful jaws to press down sharp canines into its victims throat. This is a lethal hold which allows the predator to target, block and damage the esophagus and its surrounding blood vessels for a shortest period of time. With an average weight of 61 kilogrammes, with slender body measuring up to 165 centimeters that stand from 45 to 80 centimeters, a leopard is credited with ability of killing medium size ungulates weighing between 20 to 80 kilogrammes but sometime it may go for larger prey weighing 125 kilogrammes and pull its carcass up to six meters high on a tree. Scientists say the elusive predator hunt and kill after every 7 to 13 days depending on availability but its menu is made with not less than 92 different species which include animals, birds, fish and insects of tropical savannah. rstanslaus@yahoo.com