SIMBA Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck said he will have a wide option to select players to start for his side’s essential top flight league tie against Mtibwa Sugar at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro today. The defending champions are looking to continue their perfect form in the unfolding contest as they will be searching their second back to back victory. Beating debutants 2-1 in their inaugural match on Sunday last week at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya helped to add momentum in the team as they seek to defend the championship for fourth consecutive period. However, speaking yesterday, Vandenbroeck who is eyeing another trophy with the Reds narrated that all the 28 squad members travelled to Morogoro to be part of the game. He named Chris Mugalu, Pascal Wawa and Louis Miquissone who missed the past league game as some of the players who are now set to showcase what they have against the Morogoro based club. Commenting on the status of the pitch, the coach said they need to just focus because it is the same as the one they used while in Mbeya. “The pitch is not good. It is not our style to play but we have to deal with it. We have had some training sessions on it to see how the ball is bouncing but we are used to it since even the one used on the Community Shield final in Arusha was not that good,” the Belgian trainer lamented. However, the hosts Mtibwa Sugar already fired warning shots to Simba saying they should not expect a smooth ride from them. Firing the bullets was the club’s coach Zuberi Katwila who said they have prepared according to the way their opponents are hence the game will be not easy. “We are aware that we will face defending champions as such, the level of preparedness we went through go in line with that fact for us to get good results. “The most important thing for us is to avoid making silly mistakes which in turn could be used by them as an advantage to punish us,” said Katwila whose side was on the verge to farewell the league last season. He then drummed up for many Morogoro residents to come and give them deserved support to claim maximum points from the home turf.