IN-FORM JKT continued to command Regional Basketball League (RBA) run after beating UDSM Outsiders 120-66 in thrilling match at Harbours Club court in the city. JKT maintain their winning record right from start to finish the round-robin matches at the field of 16- team league that started July this year. The league climaxes today before starting the best of 8- playoff stage next weekend. JKT, the National Basketball League (NBL) Champions, started with full-swing to lead 35-12 at the end of the first quarter and intensified their lead to 58-35 at the breather. After a break, they continue charging with a 24-14 lead at third quarter and finished off their job with 38-25 in the final quarter to seal a comfortable victory. JKT’s Baraka Sadiki was the star of the match after scoring 44 points. Ladislous Lusato and Jacob Linus added 18 and 10 points respectively to help JKT cruise to the sweet, while Francis Makuru and Adam Omary who netted 15 and 14 points for Outsiders, also played well yesterday. The victory means JKT have finished with 30 points, becoming the only team to finish the stage unbeaten. In another match staged yesterday, Ukonga Kings stunned Chui with 93-42 victory, and the win put them in pole position to feature at a play-off stage. They jumped from 8th to 6th place with 23 points like the fifth-placed Vijana City Bulls who yesterday walked home with two points without sweating after Mabibo Bullets failed to report at the venue. Vijana City Bulls set to close gap with the second- placed ABC who have bagged 26 points. Kurasini Heat and Pazi have all completed their matches, they each pocketed 26 points at the third and fourth places respectively. They too, can test the play-off battle. Seventh placed Savio who have 23 points, had an exciting battle against the 8th - placed Oilers who have 22 points after playing 13 matches. DTB are only other team that have chance to jump into the top eight bandwagon. DTB have played 13 matches, collecting 20 points. At the September 18th play-off, JKT are set to face the 8th –placed side.