ZANZIBAR has launched “50 million African Women Speak Platform” project with a call on the womenfolk to exploit the opportunity to grow fast in their business activities. Inaugurating the scheme, Zanzibar Minister for Labour, Empowerment, Elderly, Children, and Women, Dr Maudline Cyrus Castico said: “This is another opportunity for you (women) to improve in business and grow fast enough… the government is committed in supporting you.” According to her, the project among others would improve the women’s ability to access financial and non-financial information, facilitate their peer-to-peer learning, and enhance their access to financial opportunities. “It would build their networks and establish partnerships in relationships with people and structures and that would help them grow and support their businesses. Women should not remain behind in the project. Zanzibar government has been doing a lot in developing women, where so far more than 5,000 women have benefitted from soft loan in the Empowerment Fund, but this platform is also important for you,” Dr Castico pointed out. Elaborating, she said networking and partnership through the Internet and mobiles would definitely uplift the womenfolk as entrepreneurs from the grassroots. Commenting, EAC Content Manager for the ‘50 Million Platform,’ Mr Achel Bayisenge said during their pilot study, they conducted practical exercises on how women using their smartphones could subscribe to the platform and get support. On his part, EAC deputy Secretary General Responsible for Social Sectors, Mr Christophe Bazivamo, said the launch would make the women network and share information through the virtual platform and in turn make them have access to financial and non-financial information. Presiding over, EAC director Responsible for Gender and Social Sectors, Mary Makofuu assured the participants that: “This is an opportunity for us women to move ahead, and I believe you can move forward if you take it this seriously.” For the Women in Zanzibar Director, Nasima Choum the project would provide them with a platform to also network with other women entrepreneurs globally. The project worth $13.2 million is an initiative of the Africa Development Bank (AfDB) in collaboration with Economic Community of West African State (ECOWAS), the East African and Southern Africa Common Market (COMESA), and the Eastern African Community (EAC).