THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Thursday ordered two people, a man and a woman, to pay 16m/- compensation to the government for using the name of First Lady Janeth Magufuli to fraudulently obtain money from different people. Senior Resident Magistrate Augustina Mbando gave such orders against Nkinda Shekalaghe, a businessman at Tegeta Wazo Hill and Masse Uledi, a businesswoman from Kitunda Magore after convicting them on their own plea of guilty to one count of obtaining money by false pretences. In addition to such order, the magistrate also gave the duo a suspended sentence and directed them to refrain from committing any criminal offence within seven months. The magistrate also confiscated into government properties some items the two convicts were using to commit the offence. The two convicts were initially charged with three counts of fraud, including money laundering for using the name of the First Lady in a Facebook account. However, in course of the criminal trial, the two wrote to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) with a view of entering into plea bargaining agreement. Having indicated the desire to plead guilty to one of the charges in order to end the matter summarily, the DPP accepted their offer and dropped two other counts and retained the count of obtaining money by false pretenses. The prosecution, led by Principal State Attorney Martenus Marandu and Senior State Attorney Ladislaus Komanya presented the new charge before the court. Having been read and explained to them, the two business persons pleaded guilty. It was explained that the two persons committed the offence on diverse dates between January and March 31, 2020 in Dar es Salaam and other places within and outside the United Republic of Tanzania. Being operators of a Facebook account registered in the name of Janeth Magufuli, by false pretenses and with intent to defraud, the two persons obtained through mobile money transfer via mobile number registered in the name of Adam Mamba a sum of 15,068,650/- from different people. The prosecution told the court that the two persons purported to show that the loan advance will be issued by Janeth Magufuli, who is the wife of the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, a fact which to their knowledge was false. After reading the charge, the prosecution also presented memorandum of facts relating to the count. The two persons also admitted to all the facts, which indicate that during the period between January and March 2020, the police got intelligence information on a criminal syndicate. Such syndicate was using Facebook account to publish false information relating to Mama Janeth Magufuli. Following such information, the investigation was undertaken online, where it was discovered that there are people who operate an online Facebook account. The account in question, according to the prosecution, was registered in the name of Janeth Magufuli SACCOS, displaying some invitational words relating to provision of some loans online, and that any interested person could get the same within 45 minutes. Such facts also indicate the loans to be provided range from 300,000/- as a minimum amount, up to 20m/- on simple conditions, including providing a voter’s registration card or national identity card. That being the case, many people in need of the loans applied through the mobile phone number given. The phone number was intentionally and fraudulently used by the two persons to illegally obtain money from different people. After having conducted intensive investigations, the police arrested the duo and charged them with the offence of obtaining money by false pretenses, among other charges.