THE Tanzania Women Chamber of Commerce (TWCC) has commended the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli for creating conducive environment for investment in trade and industrial sectors. The appreciation was made by the national Chairperson of TWCC, Ms Jacquiline Maleko, in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the launch of provision of awards for women, who performed well in 2020 in the industrial and trade sectors, further noting that it stimulates economic growth and increases employment in the country. Ms Maleko also thanked the government for continuing to improve the business environment in the country, where many women have been able to set up businesses and small industries that have  improved their income and created jobs and as well contributed in the country's economic growth. "The current efforts by the government to improve business environment are encouraging. I urge all stakeholders to work with the government, especially in implementing the blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve the business environment," she said. According to her, the awards,  among other things aim at recognizing and honouring women, who have succeeded and those who are emerging in the industrial and trade sectors as heroine, building confidence in entrepreneurship and encouraging future generations to invest and engage in industrial and commercial activities. Another goal, according to Ms Maleko was to celebrate the achievements of women in the industrial and trade sectors. However, she explained that the awards are aimed at highlighting the contribution of the women entrepreneurs in boosting the country's economy and stimulating social development. The TWCC boss further pointed out that women are an important pillar in the development of any society, and that they have the potential to revolutionize the industry and trade if they are trusted and given the opportunity to do so. The process of obtaining award winners was coordinated by a special committee made up of members from government institutions and the private sector. To be able to participate in the awards, women are required to fill special forms which are available free of charge on the TWCC website. The forms can also be obtained from the Regional Government Offices, Councils, TWCC Regional Offices, Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO) and all Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) offices. Ms Maleko explained that the registration exercise would continue for a period of one month and would be closed on October 9, 2020. The awards ceremony for the winners is expected to take place on November 28, 2020 in Dar es Salaam. Speaking at the same occasion, a member of the TWCC, Ms Grace Msile, said provision of the awards would encourage more women to take part in various commercial activities, and when meeting, they exchange experiences on how to perform better. She was, however, quick to point out some of the challenges they face in their operations include access to markets for their businesses. The presentation of the awards will coincide with the launch of the Tanzania Inspire and Impact Book for 100 entrepreneur women. Such book will be used to promote various activities of women entrepreneurs in the country. This year's awards are sponsored by Trade Mark East Africa (TMEA) under the Capacity Building Project for Women Traders and Entrepreneurs. The TMEA have been funding TWCC since 2016 to build women's capacity to sell products within the East African Community. Through this project, the TMEA has reached more than 3000 women and plans to reach a total of 10,000 women through TWCC by 2023. TMEA has allocated more than 2bn/- to achieve this project and build the capacity of Tanzanian women to do business professionally.