THE Small Scale Industries Organisation (SIDO) has appealed to Tanzanians countrywide to start micro and small industries in their areas basing on the prospect of more power generation that the country will produce. SIDO Director General Professor Sylvester Mpanduji said Tanzania will have enough electricity and industries that will create jobs, unearth modern life opportunities and prosperity. Prof Mpanduji said in Dar es Salaam, that President John Magufuli’s government was doing a great job in generating and spreading electricity to all parts of Tanzania, adding that it was pointless to spread electricity to villages while villagers, especially primary, secondary and college leavers failed to start micro- and small industries that would change their lives, create jobs and uncover hidden modern opportunities that go with industrial processes. Tanzania is set to generate 3000 MW in the next three years, meaning the country will have a lot of electricity and surplus would be sold to neighbours. Industries need electricity to operate smoothly. Prof Mpanduji called on Tanzanians to consult SIDO offices on ideas of starting agro-processing and light industries, explaining that SIDO had industrial sheds (demonstration industrial sites) for training enterprising people right at regional level. Industrial sheds have been established in Dodoma, Mwanza, Simiyu, Kagera, Geita , Mtwara and Katavi Regions. SIDO, he said, had accumulated experience, explaining that in the five years of President Magufuli’s government some 8,477 industries emerged, creating 500,000 jobs. Out of the total, 201 are big industries, 460 medium, and 3,406 small and 4,410 micro-industries. The professor said because of the serious industrial drive it was no wonder Tanzania achieved the middle-income economy status well before the projected 2025 target. Prof Mpanduji said SIDO would strengthen the technology and innovation department to match the expectations of Tanzanians in starting industries. He said SIDO consolidated its gains during the last five years and would confidently move forward in future.