THE Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (Taliri) plans to expand the production of hay bales from current 100,000kg per each annual dry season to at least 200,000kg. The envisaged plan, will involve increasing acreage for the production of a mixture of grass- legumes at all Taliri centres in the country, focusing on supporting livestock keepers, who practiced zero grazing to feed their cattle with highly nutrient fodder. Hay is grass, legumes or other herbaceous plants that have been cut and dried to be stored for use as animal fodder, particularly for large grazing animals raised as livestock, such as cattle, horses, goats and sheep. However, it is also fed to smaller domesticated animals such as rabbits and guinea pigs. Experts say pigs may also be fed hay, but they do not digest it as efficiently as herbivores. Taliri Senior Researcher, Dr Jonas Kizima, told ‘Daily News’ that Taliri was projected to play a vital role in improving production and productivity of livestock in the country. “Most livestock keepers face major challenges of shortage of pastures to feed their cattle, especially during the dry season. Thus, we're implementing this programme to address such a challenge,” he expressed. He noted that increased human population and activities had increased the deficit of pastureland, a challenge which suggested increased production of hay bales. Taliri, according to Dr Kizima, has for years been producing hay bales of between 18kg and 20kg from Chloris Gayana and Cenchrus Silirias grass species and marketed them to livestock keepers at 3,000/- per one bale. He named the centres currently producing hay bales as Taliri-Uyole, Taliri-Tanga, Taliri-Mpwapwa, Taliri-West Kilimanjaro and Taliri Mabuki- Mwanza  to mention but a few. Dr Kizima insisted that the initiative would go hand in hand with the implementation of a project, 'Adaptation and Association Mapping Studies on Tanzania Brachiaria Ecotypes’, which targeted to help the government reduce the money spent on importing brachiaria varieties from abroad, especially in Brazil, as well as other countries, currently at $40 per 1kg. The vital programme, implemented under the programmes of Biosciences East and Central Africa (BecA) Hub, involves the collection of brachiaria of different ecotypes from at least 20 regions through conducting on station evaluation of the collected brachiaria of different ecotypes in terms of their genetic characteristics and morphological assessments, with an eye to get the best varieties with high livestock forage. The involved regions include Mtwara, Lindi, Morogoro, Coastal, Tanga, Dodoma, Manyara, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Singida, Kagera, Mara, Mwanza, Kigoma, Geita, Rukwa, Tabora, Simiyu, Shinyanga and Katavi.