CHILDREN and youth have continued to be victims of road crash injuries and deaths. Globally, Road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death for children and young adults aged 5-29 years, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). In its report, the global health body also states more than half of all road traffic deaths are among vulnerable road users: pedestrians, cyclists, and motorcyclists, the portfolio in which children fall as road users to and from schools. The UN decade of action slated for 2011-2020 expresses the State of the World’s Children’ report, to make injury prevention for children and adolescents a “major international public health objective”. Statistics released by the Tanzania Police force, shows that last year alone, there were a total of 2,834 injuries, 1,440 deaths which resulted from 2,704 crashes. Even if the statistics by the road traffic mandated body did not specifically show how many children were victimised, it highlighted that pedestrians were among those at risk. Other factors form accidents include driving under influence, recklessness, speed amid some defect vehicles, motorcycle and bicycle riders. On eighth august this year, five school children walking to their homes were ran over by a vehicle which killed three of them and injured two others. Eyewitnesses were quoted by local media testifying that the crash was due to reckless driving. Realising the challenges and its impact, an international non organisation called Amend, reached out to over 100,000 pupils from 80 different primary schools with basic education on road safety in the year 2019 alone. The schools in Dar-es-salaam, Geita, Ruvuma, Dodoma and Zanzibar recently received road safety education. Speaking with ‘Daily News’ recently, Ms Neema Swai, Amend’s Programme Officer elaborated that the programme which is facilitated under auspice of Puma energy Tanzania, focuses on primary school children and their teachers who, apart from being victims of the crashes, can be good road safety ambassadors in spreading the knowledge which will minimize fatalities. “Considering that road crashes are the leading cause of deaths to children and youth of the age between 5 to 29 years in the world (Tanzania included), it was learnt that children are involved in crashes due to the reasons that they walk alone to and from schools amid careless drivers, therefore the Amend organisation through Puma energy Tanzania decided to focus on them within their schools,” she said. MS Swai added her organisation believes that there is still a hope to mend as young children if well-educated can transfer safety knowledge to their parents and other siblings to combat deaths and disabilities resulting from road crashes. According to her, apart from equipping the primary school children with road safety skills in a practical and theoretical way, Amend organisation is conducting a competition of drawing pictures addressing road safety methods in which winners are awarded with cash prizes while their schools are also awarded in the same way. “Finally the winning drawings by the primary pupils are bounded in a bigger book and some are used to decorate schools areas and Puma energy Tanzania headquarters to help spread knowledge to the wider community. The main intention is to bring up a road safety aware generation to avoid more casualties in the near future.” Addressing the public recently in Zanzibar, The home affairs Deputy Minister Ahmad Masauni said that apart from the government cementing on methods of controlling violators of traffic laws, Educating the little ones of traffic rules and regulations should be embraced by every safety lover. “There is importance for Tanzanians to continue getting education on road safety as a major way to mitigate avoidable crashes and related repercussions,” said the deputy minister. Managing Director for Puma Energy Tanzania Dominic Dhanah said his oil trading company decided to extend sponsoring the campaigns to children on road safety, increase of people, number of vehicles and social activities. Mr Dhanah pointed out the regions that were benefitting from the programme included Dar es Salaam, Geita, Kilimanjaro, Ruvuma, Arusha and Dodoma. “This year’s (2019) campaign involves at least 25 primary schools in the country, five schools in Dodoma. Other schools are in Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar,” he noted. Considering the fact that the education must also involve drivers, PUMA Energy Tanzania strives to ensure to reach motorists through its fuel stations where it recently launched a campaign of distributing to motorists in road safety principles, learning materials for children. In urban areas, children face challenges when moving from a place to another because they are forced to share the same roads with the road cultureless drivers. Cars, bicycles and motorcycles share the road with children at the same time. This lands young children to be among the pedestrians who die or become permanent disabled due to road crashes in Tanzania and in other African countries. One of the challenges faced by children is not only lack of knowledge on the use of road signs, but lack of the signs completely. Some school areas do have fainting traffic signs and some are not there at all, which risks the lives of children to move vehicles. “Traditionally, road infrastructure has focused mainly on motorised transport - often at the expense of safety for pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists. Today most countries, while promoting walking and cycling, have not developed infrastructure that reduces the risk of road traffic injuries, and pedestrians and cyclists are forced to share the road with high-speed vehicles,” Suggests WHO in its document titled; Save lives: Infrastructure design and Improvement. WHO also wants it that all designs of infrastructure must consider and pay attention to the specific needs of people with disabilities, children and the elderly who face a plethora of challenges when on the roads. Even though it is not a shock to see children walking alone on roads especially in urban areas, experts advise differently. A 2017 study carried out by psychologists at Iowa University in the US has revealed that children up to the age of 14 aren’t able to cross roads as safely as adults because their visual judgment and motor skills are still developing. While a big section of children from poor backgrounds do face challenges of struggling to catch busses to and from schools, the case was somehow similar to those from rich backgrounds. In May 2017, 29 pupils and 3 teachers died after their minibus they were travelling in plunged by the road side and overturned. The then Karatu District commissioner, Theresia Mahongo said that the minibus capacity was 30, carrying a total of 40 people. From such a horrible incident, Traffic Police started inspecting private schools’ transportation means where it discovered that among other shortcomings was a crowded number of pupils. “Children are one of the groups of most vulnerable persons. Children must have restraints when on board or seatbelt for the older ones. This has been scientifically proven to minimize death and injuries in case of accidents,” Suggests a road safety document by Tanzania Law society (TLS). TLS also requires it that this be put in the road traffic act so that it can be enforced by the law.