UGANDAN President Yoweri Museveni yesterday wished CCM’s Presidential candidate, President John Magufuli  a triumph in the forthcoming General Election. “I know that the President currently seeks votes, I will pray for him and I pray for all members of the CCM party as well… I wish you a clear victory,” said President Museveni, while presiding over signing an agreement in Chato District, Geita region on paving the way for the construction of a crude oil pipeline running from Ugandan oilfields to Tanga port. “And…when we were coming here to the podium, I heard some very beautiful songs, two old songs that I used to hear when I stayed in Tanzania back then… can you please give me those songs in tape,” he requested. He continued: “Give it to Uganda’s Ambassador to Tanzania; I will be very grateful to receive them, I think those are the songs sang during the era of TANU (The Tanganyika African National Union).” Museveni’s statement came just a day ahead of CCM’s second phase presidential campaign to start today in Chato district, Geita region. CCM’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Mr Humphrey Polepole, recently told reporters in Chato that so far, CCM is recording great performance in its campaigns and that they expect a landslide victory on the October 28th polls. He said the party’s assessment on the past few days of the campaign shows green lights ahead of the general election. He said so far, everything was on the right track and that the party had recorded a magnificent performance. Mr Polepole said the party’s special research unit, which is under the Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally, had been conducting opinion polls on the performance and views of voters ahead of the general election. He said for more than ten days since the official launch of the campaign, all signs pointed to victory by Dr Magufuli. According to Mr Polepole, CCM is recording good performance because it is ‘selling’ its policies as stipulated in the manifesto and not otherwise. Mr Polepole said the party was eying siding with 17 million active members that translates to around 60 per cent of votes if all of them vote for the ruling party and Dr Magufuli. According to Mr Polepole, CCM is conducting its campaigns strategically by using all its cadres across the country and that former top party leaders are also active in the race in different places. He said the party’s presidential candidate had so far covered Dodoma, Singida, Tabora and Shinyanga. Other areas covered include Simiyu, Mara, Mwanza and Geita.