In celebrating World Patient Safety Day, the Aga Khan Hospital in Dar es Salaam has urged health stakeholders to utilise multimodal strategies to improve the safety of health workers and patients in the country to avoid the eruption of diseases similar to Covid-19. Speaking during a press briefing in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, Director of Nursing at the Aga Khan Hospital Aika Mongi said the theme was “Health Worker Safety: A Priority for Patients Safety”. “The Covid-19 has posed a challenge health workers are facing globally. They encounter increased risk of healthcare associated infections, violence, accidents, stigma, illness and death.” She said this after outlining challenges experienced in service delivery during the Covid-19 pandemic where many service providers were at risk of contracting the deadly disease. In response to the pandemic health workers have taken necessary health measures such as the use of gloves, facemasks and hand sanitisers while providing health services to avoid health risks. Thus, to avoid the occurrence of fatal diseases the Aga Khan Hospital recommended this year’s objectives to raise global awareness about the importance of supporting health workers with resources that will ensure their safety together with their patients. “Engage multiple stakeholders and adopt multimodal strategies to improve the safety of health workers and patients, implement urgent and sustainable actions by all stakeholders which recognise and invest in the safety of health workers, as a priority for patient safety and recognise health workers' dedication and hard work, particularly at this time of Covid-19 pandemic." The Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children made efforts to combat the outbreak by building the capacity of its staff and prepare them to deal with pandemics, including how to provide treatment, sampling, education and consideration health regulations. Until April 24 this year, the ministry trained 2,113 health experts to deal with the outbreak in 11 regions of Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Rukwa, Songwe, Tabora, Dodoma, Tanga, Mbeya and Coast. A total of 17 regions had facilities for treatment of coronavirus patients. In addition, the ministry has continued providing community education on how to protect individuals by identifying the symptoms of the disease. This was through the media (newspapers, radio and TV stations), social media, schools, colleges and house of worships to keep the community safe. Medical Director of the Aga Khan Hospital, Dr Ahmed Jusabani, said “the overall objectives of World Patient Safety Day were to enhance global understanding of patient safety, increase public engagement in the safety of healthcare and promote global actions to enhance patient safety and reduce patient harm. The origin of World Patient Safety Day is firmly grounded in the fundamental principle of medicine – ‘first do no harm’. "The Aga Khan Hospital is eagerly joining hands with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other international partners to mark this remarkable initiative which helps to shape the healthcare delivery system while keeping our staff and patients' safety a priority."