AGRICOM Africa, a supplier of farming machines, has assured Rukwa cooperative society of supplying agricultural machines before the new season starts. The local supplier said providing agri-tools at the right farming time enabled farmers to familiarise with the machines through various training to better use them. Agricom Head of Training Department Philip William said they had established a programme on machine training to make better use and raise awareness on the importance of using latest agricultural tools in agriculture. He said they in collaboration with other stakeholders wanted to change farmers’ ability on the use of agri-tools, especially modern ones to increase production and uplift livelihoods. Agricom is offering affordable agri-loans to farmers and is fully-equipped with all agricultural tools from tilling land, planting, harvesting and even for transporting agricultural produce. For instance, if one takes a tractor loan, the equipment is not limited to ploughing activities, but also to other uses such as transporting farm goods and watering crops and other activities. The tractor can also be hired at a good price and get additional funds for loan repayment. The main idea is to enable farmers to cultivate more land and at affordable costs compared to hand hoe and plough since a tractor tilled 10 hectares a day. Sumbawanga Ntendo Amcos Chairperson Devis Simwinga thanked the regional government for accepting the agri-machine training programme and promised to use skills imparted to them. “We have agreed as a group to ensure  we contribute half of the costs of buying a tractor since tractors will increase our outputs,” Mr Simwinga said.  The Amcos has 167 associations. One of Amcos member Daudi Chambanenje said availability of tractor would help improve farming activities and production and boost the union. “We need these machines, but we are facing some challenges, including their use and how to acquire them. We have seen light at the end of the tunnel after the coming of Agricom,” Mr Chambanenje said.