CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) presidential running mate, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said if their party would sail through in the coming General Elections, they would continue to improve community social services. She further said the improvements would be done in line with party’s determinations to bring social services close to the people as indicated in their 2020-2025election manifesto. The Vice-President made the statement in Rufiji district yesterday, while addressing a rally in the ongoing campaigns ahead of the general election slated for 28th October, this year. “We are determined to increase the number of Health Centres, Referral Hospitals, supply of water services and equally improve the education sector countrywide,” she said, further pointing out that all projects that couldn’t be completed during the 2015-20 would now be revisited and completed immediately. According to her, the government would construct 98 more District Hospitals and 10 Regional Referral Hospitals and as well improve  education infrastructures in needy areas. Speaking on projects to be implemented in Rufiji district, the Vice-President noted that the government would support the initiatives launched by the Rufiji Constituency Member of Parliament aspirant, Mohammed Mchengerwa including constructing the area Vocational Training College to train youths in Rufiji as far as other parts of the Coast Region. “Upon completion, the college will  not only absorb youth from the district but the whole region because the government has been looking for a location to construct the institution for a long time, thanks to the efforts that had already  been taken by Mr Mchengerwa,” she noted. Speaking on the achievements that have been realized by CCM in the area, she said they have increased electricity connections in several rural areas, increased also water service and reformed the education sector to the extent of seeing many students now studying free to Form Four from Standard One. Equally, the Vice-President highlighted how their party has increased revenue collection from the Local Government to national level in the past five years. Expounding, she said the government would continue increasing road networks to ease people movement and their goods countrywide. Commenting, Mr Mchengerwa said the government has been active in responding to the challenges facing Rufiji residents; hence, he deserves to be reelected to continue working on the pending community projects. “A lot has been done by the government to Rufiji constituency… more villages have been electrified and we are now benefiting from 5bn/- that is being issued by the government every year from the execution of the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHP) being implemented in the district,” he said.