KAZIM Nasser Memorial T-50 Cricket League for Division A is getting tougher but very thrilling with almost all teams having equal chance to progress to the semifinals after displaying their stellar performance over the weekend. Gymkhana, Aces, Caravans, Strikers A and Aga Khan Sports Club Cricket Team (AKSC) have indeed been in their best forms this year as each of them performing at its best to command the table. The safest position in this league is the first and second place where the two meet in the first semi and the winners progress to finals. The losers will have a second chance to progress to the finals if they win the play-off against the third and fourth places winners of the league. If it was not the last Sunday results favouring Aces, Dar Gymkhana would have been the first team to progress to semis, but also it would have to minimize other teams’ chance to elevate to the first place. Prior to their defeat, they had won all their three games. Gymkhana won the toss and elected to bat first at the the end it was Aces who won by one wicket in epic game Dar Gymkhana oval. It was indeed a thrilling game and more interesting 50 overs game. Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) official, Atif Salim said it was one of the most spectacular fifty overs game. “Experienced skipper Bhavesh Govind of Aces partnering with Emmanuel Peter for the last wicket to pull off a victory over Gymkhana was a treat to watch for all the fans. There was so much to learn from that game with the twist and turns that it had.” The batsman Bhavesh Govind was named the Player of the Match as he bagged 25 runs from 57 balls. On the same day, Caravans faced General Petroleum and won by 78 runs in a game staged at Leaders Club oval in Dar es Salaam. The bowler Jayaraj Malayil was named  the Player of the Match as he registered 39 runs and claimed four wickets. Although Gymkhana lost, they are still on command of the league table after collecting six points and 1.55 net run rate. They have played four games; won three and lost one. At the second place are Aces, they have played three games, won two and lost one game. With these results Aces have registered four points similar to Caravans and Strikers A. Aces and Caravans have also been tied in net run rate as both have 0.45 while Strikers A have -0.33. Caravans have played four games; won two and lost two in the four games played. Strikers have won two and lost one. On the fifth slot are Aga Khan Sports Club Cricket Team (AKSC), they have played two games; won one and lost one. They have registered two points with a net run rate of 0.17. Incase AKSC win the rest of their games, there is a high chance for them to grab the diadem. At the bottom are General Petroleum (GP) who have lost all four games they have played so far. Whether they win their next game or lose to AKSC it will not make any difference.