A TAXI driver operating in Mbeya City, Westone Haule, is to remain behind bars for the rest of his life for raping a nine-year old primary schoolgirl after luring her with 200/- bus fare. Court of Appeal Justices Batuel Mmilla, Rehema Mkuye and Sivangilwa Mwangesi dismissed the appeal under which the appellant had lodged to challenge both the sentence and conviction imposed on him by the trial court and subsequently sustained by the High Court. “We find that the appeal is without founded basis, and as a result, we dismiss it in its entirety. Order accordingly,” the justices declared. During the hearing of the appeal, the appellant complained, among other things, that his defence evidence against the charge was not considered by the trial court to the extent that the witnesses’ testimony was false and the prosecution had not proved the case against him to the required standard. In their judgment, however, the justices of the appellate court had this to say: “In view of what was observed above by the trial senior resident magistrate in regard to the defence given by the appellant, we hesitate to side with the appellant that his defence was not considered.” As regards to the appellant’s argument that the case against him was not established to the standard required by the law, such a contention was, however, strongly countered by the prosecution by arguing that the case had been proven beyond reasonable doubt,” they said. On their part, upon having dispassionately revisited the evidence in the record from either side, the justices of the Court of Appeal said they had been moved to side with the prosecution for a number of reasons. Beginning with the testimony of the victim, the justices noted that the voire dire test which was conducted to her by the trial senior resident magistrate was done in full compliance with the requirement of the law. “With regard to her narration before the court as to what happened to her on the fateful date, she was clear and coherent. She gave a consistent story, starting from when she first met the appellant whom she knew,” they said. The justices also said from the record of appeal, the victim of rape had narrated further on how the appellant managed to make her board onto a taxi wherein he was, and thereafter moved with her to the place where she was raped at Isanga. “In the circumstances, we fully agree ourselves with the findings of the lower courts that the witness was credible and her testimony was properly relied upon,” they said in their judgement. Particulars of the offence show that the appellant had carnal knowledge of the girl on July 9, 2015 at Isanga in Mbeya City. It was the tale of the victim that on the material date at about 14:30 hours when she was travelling from her school to her friend’s place at Sinde to collect keys for their home, she met the appellant on the way in a taxi. Upon seeing the girl, the appellant forced her to board the taxi and drove with her to Isanga, where he raped her inside a certain room. After he had accomplished his evil mission, the appellant took the victim to Sinde where he gave her 200/- for bus fare to her family home. After arriving at the victim’s parents’ house, the appellant did not reveal to her mother, who by then was sick, the ordeal which she had undergone. But what caused the mother to know that some foul game had been played against her daughter were some blood stains which she found on the sink of their toilet at night.