A TOTAL of 80 villages in Mtwara Rural Constituency had been connected to electricity by June this year, CCM parliamentary seat aspirant in the area Ms Hawa Ghasia has said. Speaking here yesterday,  Ms Ghasia said the villages are among 110 in the constituency to be electrified through the Rural Energy Agency (REA). "As of June this year, some 80 out of 110 villages in Mtwara Rural had been supplied and connected to electricity which is vital for  the improvement of social services," she said, noting that the remaining villages will be electrified at the beginning of Phase Three  which will kick off soon. She said that the fifth phase  government's mission is to ensure that  all the villages are supplied and connected to power, in order to improve and increase social services in households, hospitals, schools, health centres and industries. "One of the policies outlined in the CCM manifesto is electricity connection to rural areas, to increase provision of social services especially health care services for women and children and this has been very successful," she said. The CCM aspirant, who has been the MP for the constituency for the three phases, said Mtwara Rural Constituency had only one village connected to electricity when she was first elected the MP in 2005. Ms Ghasia mentioned other social service projects which had been  successfully implemented in the constituency as water supply, under which water supply  has increased from 40 to 57 per cent. She said that the fifth government under President  John  Magufuli had implemented and improved many water projects in the constituency. She said one of  them revolves around water boreholes and installation of water tanks in villages. "The government, through  the CCM party, has also made a lot of improvements in the transport sector by constructing and maintaining road infrastructures," she said, adding that the education sector had  also been improved through the construction of secondary and primary schools, equipping them with teachers and teaching facilities. "One of my biggest dreams, which also prompted me  to venture into  politics was to ensure that Mtwara’s education sector status improved, especially amongst girls. This has also constituted a success story, as we are now experiencing construction of schools and dormitories for accommodating girls in schools," she said. Ms Ghasia thanked wananchi in  Mtwara Constituency for electing her as their legislator consistently, promising to ensure that the constituency advances on social and economic fronts if she is elected in the upcoming election. She also urged them to vote for CCM presidential candidate John Magufuli,  to give him a chance to accomplish all the good work that he had accomplished during the first five-year tenure.