AS human beings, we normally shiver, panic and lose hope upon hearing that a relative or a friend is under treatment in an intensive care unit (ICU). More often, we equate ICU wards with death. But Sister Prisca Lugela Kiyuka, who is a lead critical care nurse at Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) ward, has a different view. “I have seen more recoveries than deaths in ICU wards,” Sr. Prisca, who has been privileged to working in two referral hospital’s ICU wards in Tanzania for several years, says. ICU nurses provide care for life threatening medical conditions and injuries in hospitals. Being an ICU or critical care nursing can be both complex and challenging. It requires advanced technical skills, a calm manner and a positive life philosophy. Sr. Prisca possesses those qualities. She is calm and calculative when talking. She is among few highly trained critical care nurses in Tanzania. Her positive life philosophy as a critical care nurse is to ‘never give up’ in any situation when dealing with patients. “Critical care nurses are trained that way. We never give up. Working with doctors, we always employ all techniques available to serve our patients,” Sr. Prisca who was born some 42 years ago in Shinyanga region notes. Born to Gilbert Lugela Kiyuka and Maria Mabaya, Sr. Prisca is the 10th child in a family of three girls and eight boys. Just like many girls of her age, she wanted to become a doctor, an engineer or a nurse. However, as years went by, nursing shadowed other interests she had. One of her brothers, who was a medical doctor then, and her mother’s friend, Conjesta, who is still a nurse up to now in Mwadui, cemented her love for nursing and also played as her mentors. “Apart from her smart looks, I loved the way mama Conjesta cared for the sick and I wanted to be like her,” Sr. Prisca who passed with flying colours in her primary education and attended Moshi Technical School explains. After her ordinary secondary school, she was selected to join a teaching course, but she did not like it at all, because the pull to nursing was so strong, and she decided to apply for the post and succeeded. She joined Bugando Referral Hospital in 1997 for a four-year diploma course in nursing until 2001 when she was employed at the same hospital. It is at Bugando where she started working at ICU. Sr. Prisca, a wife and a mother of two boys and a girl, says she requested to work at the hospital’s ICU because she believed nurses working there possessed extra expertise. “I was attracted by the way ICU nurses used to take independent professional decisions, unlike nurses in other departments. I wanted to acquire such expertise as well,” she remembers. She worked at the hospital’s ICU until 2004 when she went for further studies at the University of Cape Town in South Africa for a two-year Post Graduate diploma course in Critical Care. She came back home and continued working at Bugando until 2008 when she relocated to Muhimbili National Hospital where she continues working until today, serving children and adults undergoing open heart surgery at JKCI. Witnessing critical patients stabilizing, improving and resume their normal daily activities gives her joy and fires up more energy for Sr. Prisca, which helps her to soldier on in her work. As non-communicable diseases, including heart related diseases continue to rise in the world and Tanzania, Sr. Prisca thinks that critical care nurses will be in high demand in the near future. “I urge young people to take nursing and focus on critical care and secure our future,” she notes, adding that nursing is for both men and women. The experienced nurse notes that it is a misplaced thinking to regard nursing as a women-only job. “This is a wrong and obsolete concept. Today we have women doctors the same way we have male nurses,” she notes. She regards exposure programmes as important for a well-developed and competent critical care nursing, and calls upon other teaching hospitals to emulate JKCI which provides regular exposure and refresher courses to both nurses and doctors. In an article published by ResearchGate titled ‘Critical Care in Africa: a new chapter begins’ published in March, 2018, explains that Africa has immature critical care services compared to other countries in the developed world. According to the article, in developed countries, care of the critically ill comprises of a large proportion of health care spending. Emmanuel Rubagumya writes about science, technology and innovation. Email: innovationstz@ gmail.com