SAMUEL  Taylor  Coleridge (1772 -  1834),  a  renowned  British  poet,  is  on  record  as  having  said  the  following:-   “If  men  could  learn  from  history,   what  lessons  it  might  teach  us !  But  passion  and  party   blind  our  eyes,  and  the  light  which  experience  gives  becomes  a  lantern  in  the  stern,  which  shines  only  on  the  waves  behind  us”. Now  that  we  are  in  the  process  of  “warming  up”  for  this  year’s  general  elections;   it  appears  prudent   to  remind  our  esteemed  readers,    to  cast  their  reflections  also  on  what  lessons  we  can   learn  from  some  past  elections;   our  own   national  elections,  as  well  as  from  those  of   other  countries ,  particularly   Kenya’s   2017  general  elections.  Two  specific  lessons. There  are  two  specific  lessons   that  I  wish  to  discuss  in  this  article:   One  is  the  unjustifiably    high   level   of   election  expenses  incurred  by   individual  candidates,  and  their  political  parties :   which  could,   certainly,   be  avoided;  (as  exemplified  by  some  of  our  own  past  by-elections). The   other  is   the  occurrence   of  unnecessary  community   violence  during  elections;  ( which,  if  indeed  there  is  a  will,   could   be  avoided). Relevant  past  experience. In   September   2008,  I  personally  witnessed,  and  complained  loudly  about,   what  I  regarded  as  the  “totally  unjustified  amounts  of  public  money  being  wasted  on   bye-election  expenses”.    At  that  material  time,  I  was  the  CCM  Vice- Chairman  for  Tanzania  Mainland,  serving  under  the  then  CCM  national  Chairman,  President    Jakaya  Kikwete   of   the  fourth  phase  government.  Thus,  in  that  capacity,  I  had  been  assigned  the  task  of  leading  the  ruling  party’s  campaign  team  in  the  by – election  that  took  place  in  Tarime  constituency. That  is  where  I  witnessed  the   two   matters   mentioned  above,   that   amazed  me  to  the  extent  that  I  published   a  special  presentation  titled   “Reflections  on  the  Tarime   by– election” ;  in  which  I  expressed  my  disappointment   regarding   these  matters,  namely   that  of   elections  being  too  expensive  unnecessarily;    and  the  unnecessary  community  violence  that  accompanies  some  of  them. The  high  level  of  election  expenses In  that   presentation   titled  “Reflections  on  the  Tarime  by-election”;   I  made  the  following  observation:  “Even  if  the  matter  is  looked  at  only  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  visible  elements  of  expenditure,  namely  the  large  numbers  of  campaign  personnel  imported  from  outside  the  constituent  itself,  thus  demanding  the  deployment  of  equally  large  numbers   of  vehicles,  supplemented  by   hired  helicopters;   it  can  be   safely  assumed  that  the  cost  of  the  campaign  for  each  of  the  major  participating  parties,  namely  CHADEMA  and  CCM,   must  have  been  exceedingly  high”.  For  the  benefit  of   our  present  day  readers,  it  may  be  helpful  to  give  a  brief  resume  of  the  relevant   events  and  circumstances  pertaining  thereto.   The  preceding  2005  general  election  results  had  given  CCM  a  total  of  206  constituency  seats  in  Parliament;  whereas  CHADEMA  had  secured  only  5  seats,  including  that  of  Tarime.   It  was  therefore  obvious  that   winning  that  single  seat  would  not  materially  alter   the  balance  in  the  respective  strengths  of  those   two  parties  inside  the  House. I  therefore  posed  the  relevant  questions:  “why   then,  should  this  single  seat  be  fought  over  like  it  was  a  matter  of  life  and  death,  considering  the  fact  that  the  capture,  or  retention  (as  the  case  may  be),  of   that  single  seat   would   in  any  case  not  result  in  CCM  losing  power,  or  CHADEMA  acquiring   power?     AND,   like  the  proverbial   ‘white  man’s  (malaria)  burden  of  colonial  times,   is  this  not  a  self – imposed  poor  man’s   (financial)  burden ?”   I  so   asked. Subsequently,   however,  I  was   gratified  that  in  the  succeeding  by-elections  which  were  held  thereafter,  no  helicopters  were  hired  for  the  campaigns,   and   the  “imported”  campaign  personnel   from  distant  regions,   were  also  significantly  reduced.    My  pertinent   questions   quoted  above,  had  been   answered.  I  was  further  gratified  that  my  “whistle-blowing”  efforts   against   “the  unnecessary  high  cost  of  elections”   soon    got  a  sympathetic  hearing  from  both  the  Government  and  the  Legislature;  who,  quickly   thereafter   in  2010,  enacted  new  legislation   cited  as  “The  Election  Expenses  Act  (no.  6)  of  2000);  which  imposed  strict  controls  on  the  use  of  funds    by  individual  candidates  and  their  political  parties,   during  the  entire  election  process.   The  ‘election  process’   was  defined   to  include (a)  the  initial  stages  for  the  nomination  of  candidates;  (b)  the  election  campaign  stage;  and  (c)  the  election  event  itself.  These  controls  include  the  requirement  for  the  disclosure  of  the  sources  of  all  the  campaign  funds,  and   strict   accountability  for  them;    plus,  even  more  important,    the  imposition  of  an  upper  limit  to  all  the  expenses  that  may  be  incurred   by  candidates  and  political  parties   during  the  entire  ‘election  process’.  The   worrying   acts  of  election  violence In   that  same  presentation  titled   “Reflections  on  the  Tarime  by-election”,   I  also  narrated  certain   acts  of  violence  that  had  occurred  in   Toronto,  Canada,  during  their   campaign  period.   Coincidentally,   just   as  I  was  preparing  to  write   my  piece  on  Tarime,    I  received  a  copy  of  the  “International  Jerald  Tribune”  newspaper  of  10th  October,  2008,  which  carried  the  following  story  at  page  7:  “POLITICS  IN  CANADA  TURN  UGLY,  AND  DANGEROUS”;  and  continued  as  follows:  “Last  weekend,  Toronto  residents  woke  up  to  find  the   brake  lines  on  their  cars  severed,  their  telephone  and  cable television  lines  cut,  and  political  graffiti  scratched  onto  their  automobile  paint  and  scrawled  on  their  homes. The  sole  link  between  the  victims  was  the  display  of a  lawn  sign  promoting  a  Liberal  candidate  in  the  current  Federal  elections.   The  attacks  occurred    in  two  leafy,  upper  middle  class  residential    neighbourhoods.    The  incident  has  brought  an  unwelcome  tinge  of  nastiness  to  the  election  campaign”.                                                                                                                  What  an usual  coincidence:    Tarime  and  Toronto  experiencing  similar  kinds  of  campaign  violence problems  at  about  the  same  time!  Post –election  violence  in   Zanzibar. The  said   election  campaign  violence  in  Toronto,  may  well  have  been  a  rare  occurrence.  But  post-election  violence  in  Zanzibar  has  been  a  frequent,  re-appearing  episode,   starting  with  the  first  post-revolution  multi-party  general  elections  of  1995;  in  which  the  CUF  Presidential   candidate  lost  the  Presidential  election;    whereupon   he,   and  his  party,   immediately  announced  the  rejection  of  the said   election  results,  claiming  that  they   had  been  “manipulated”   by  the  Zanzibar  Electoral  Commission  in  favour  of  the  winning  CCM  Presidential  candidate;    whose  legitimacy  they  therefore  refused  to  recognize;  and   in  addition,  they  also   announced  a  policy  of  non-cooperation  with  the  newly  elected  Zanzibar  Government.    As  a  consequence  thereof,   some  of  their  members  and  supporters   started  engaging  themselves  in  unlawful  acts  of  civil  disobedience,  and  of  undermining  the  Zanzibar  Government.                                                                                                                  This,  in  turn,  produced   an  angry  counter  reaction,   whereby  the  winning  party  used  state  power  to  fight  back,  ostensibly  in  order  to  maintain  peace.    A   number  of  CUF  members  were  arrested  and  charged  with  the  grave  offence  of  treason,  thus  causing  many  others  to  flee  to  Mombasa  in  neighbouring    Kenya,   to  avoid  similar  arrests.                                                                                                        The  cumulative  effect  of  all  this,  was  a  nasty  political  impasse,  which  lasted  for  four  years,   out  of  that  five-year  leadership  period. Lessons  from  our  neighbours. A  presentation  made   by  one  Justice   Novati   Rutenge,  which  was  published  in  THE  CITIZEN   of  Monday,  11th  September,  2017;  carried  the  following  news  item:   “Kenya’s  2017 general  elections  were  a  cautionary  tale  of  how  electoral  malpractices (call  it  outright  rigging)  can  divide  a  country  and  lead  to  deep-seated  turmoil  .  .  .  After   taking  what  seems  to  be  all  the  steps  in  the  right  direction  in  terms  of  setting  up  a  fool-proof  electoral  process,   just  how  did  Kenya  manage  to have  botched  election?"    Rutenge  was  referring  to  the  unprecedented  community  violence  which  erupted  immediately  following  the  announcement  of  the  Presidential  election  results. But   Kenya’s  2017  Presidential   elections  were  also  nullified   by  the  Kenya   Supreme   Court.     Another   commentator  by  the  name  of  Deus  Kibamba  penned  his  personal  opinion  in THE  CITIZEN    of   6th  September,  2017,  as  follows:  “The  first  lesson  to  be  learnt  from  the  nullification  of  the  Kenya  Presidential  election  results,  is  that  a  good  constitutional  dispensation  can  safeguard  the  independence  of  the  Judiciary”.   His   assertion   seemed   to  suggest   that   Tanzania  does   not   have  a  “good  Constitutional  dispensation!   This  is  strange  and  surprising,  because  Tanzania  does  have  a  Constitution  which  guarantees  the  independence  of  the  Judiciary,  which  is  provided  for  in  its   article  107B.  Yet   another  commentator,  Dr  Benson  Bana  of  the  University  of  Dar es Salaam,  observed   “they  have  taught  us  a  very  big  lesson,  which  is  that  Presidential  election  results  should  be  allowed  to  be  challenged  in  court”.    But,   surprisingly,    Dr  Bana   failed   to  acknowledge   the  fact  that  the  proposed  new  Constitution  of  the   United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  (which  had  already  been  enacted  by  the  Constituent  Assembly  in  October  2014, three  years  before  the  Kenya  Presidential  elections  were  held);   had  already  made  provision  for  Presidential  election  results  to  be  challenged  in  Court,  as  per  article  90 (1)  and  (2)  of  that  proposed  Union  Constitution  that  is  only  awaiting  approval  by  a  referendum.   Which  means  that,   had  it  not  been  for  this  newly  introduced  procedure  of  holding  a  referendum  to  approve  a  new  Constitution;   the  proposed  new  Constitution  would  have  been  already   in force,  and  would  have  been  implemented  in  respect   of   our  2015  Presidential  election,  ahead  of  Kenya’s    2017 general  election. A  distorted  view  of  the  independence  of  the  Judiciary. THE  CITIZEN    of  5th  September,  2017;  also  carried  the  following  news  item:  “Opposition  leaders  across  Africa,  long  frustrated  in  their  campaigns  to  topple  firmly  entrenched  leaders,  are  hailing  the  shock  of  last  month’s  Presidential  vote  in  Kenya,  calling  it  a  good  example  for  their  own  countries  to  emulate”.   That  news  item  quoted  a  number  of  opposition  leaders,  including  Zimbabwe's   Opposition  leader  Morgan  Tsivangirai,  who  was  reported  to  have  told  thousands  of  his  supporters  at  a  rally:  “If  it  can  happen  in  Kenya,   it  can  happen  in  Zimbabwe  as  well”;  and  Burundi’s   Opposition  leader  Nditije,  who  was  reported  as  having  said  that  “Kenya’s  decision  stands  in  stark  contrast  to  the  cowardice  shown  by  Burundi’s  courts (which  had  cleared  President  Nkurunziza’s  election bid).   Nditije   further  claimed  that   “Kenya’s  Supreme  Court  is  a  model  of  the  independence  of  the  Judiciary,  which  should  be  followed”.  The  same  news  item  also  quoted  Uganda’s   Opposition  leader  Kizza  Besigye,  who  was  reported  to  have  said  “The  Uganda  Judiciary  should  learn  from  their   Kenyan  counterparts,  to   also  be  independent”,  and  continued  thus:  I  doubt  if  the  same  could  have  happened  in  Uganda”. My  own  comment  was  that    “all  these  appear  to  be  very  strange  views  regarding  the  independence  of  the  Judiciary;   for  they  seem  to  suggest  that  the  Judiciary  becomes    independent   only  when   it  overturns  Presidential  election  results . . .  This  is  stranger  than  fiction”.  Thus,  it  is  important  to  note  that   there  are  both  positive,  as  well  as  negative  lessons  to  be  learnt  from   Kenya’s   election  performance  (and  that  of  other  countries).     With  regard  to  Uganda’s  Presidential  elections;    commentator  Justice  Novati  Rutenge,   whom  I  quoted  above,   had   said  the  following:  “Presidential  elections  in  Uganda  have  been  routinely  stolen  by  the  declared  winner,  President   Yoweri  Museveni,  and  therefore,  in  terms  of  sustaining  democracy,  they  were  useless  and  meaningless”.  That,   of  course,  was  his  personal  opinion.   But  if  it  is  true,  it  only  confirms  the  point  that   if  we  are  to  learn  any  lessons  from  our  neighbours,   we  must  avoid  the  negative  ones. (will  continue  next  week) piomsekwa@gmail.com  /  0754767576.  