THE ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) has vowed to maintain its solid stance on supervising minerals so that Tanzanians and the entire nation reap maximum benefits from the resource. Addressing Mirerani residents in Manyara Region, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who is a member to the Central Committee of the ruling party, said if CCM is reelected to power on October 28, it will ensure that reforms undertak- en in the mining sector during the first five years of President John Magufuli’s leadership are consolidated. The premier said the CCM government will ensure that it continues to empower the community by creating an en- abling environment for small scale miners to own mineral resources. He said CCM would ensure that the mining sector contrib- utes more to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and reduce poverty in the country. He said that among the major reforms undertaken by Dr Magufuli in the mining sector include the improvement of key infrastructure in mining areas by taking various critical measures. These include the construction of a wall surround- ing the Mirerani mines and strengthening control of Tanzanite minerals, thus increasing productivity for miners and the nation at large. Mr Majaliwa said that in ensuring that miners continue to benefit, the government has built 28 mineral auctioning centres across the country, where small scale miners have the opportunity to sell and earn enough money compared to previous years. For their part, the residents of Mirerani area, especially small scale miners, applauded Dr Magufuli for his decision to build the wall in question, as it has been of great benefit to them. They said the wall had enabled a large number of young people in the mining business to benefit from the activity and their living conditions have changed positively. Saning’o ole Lengoje is one of the Mirerani residents who benefited from the mining sector reforms, whereas previously, very few people benefited. So, he asked his fellow youths to support the CCM government because it cares for the weak. Earlier, the premier held a campaign rally at Orkesumet Primary School grounds, where he said the government was committed to improving road infrastructure in the country as well as Simanjiro District, where the road from Kongwa to Orkesumet, Simanjiro will be constructed. He said the 340 km Kongwa-Mbuyuni- NARCO Junction-Kibaya-Orkesumet road features in the 2020-2025CCM election manifesto. The other roads are Arusha-Kibaya- Kongwa (430 km), Kongwa Ranch- Kiteto-Simanjiro- KIA (483 km), Babati- Orkesumet-Kibaya (225 km.