AS long as she can remember, Professor Amelia Kivaisi feels fascinated by nature and puzzles about its various features-from beautiful landscapes to rains, different fauna and flora in Kagera region where she was born on 1st August 1949. Later in life, she would fall in love with Chemistry and Biology subjects to enable her investigate more about Mother Nature, which in a nutshell naturally made a lot of sense for her and shaped her profession. She had a good fortune of growing at Kagabiro village, Muleba District being surrounded by nature in all its greatness, from the morning dewdrops on the grass, early birds singing, waterfalls, beautiful farms, eye-catching forests, herds of cows mooing, goats bleating, let alone insects’ chirps and squawks. For her, these were interesting marvels worthy to learn more about. During her heydays, it was not a matter of choosing subjects to move on with, but rather the class teachers on the basis of a student’s performances in Forms One to Two, and since she was generally good in science subjects, she was automatically listed in the science stream. “I have no regrets,” Prof Amelia who is a renowned biotechnologist in and outside Tanzania says. She has been extremely fortunate to have parents, who instilled and encouraged her and the rest of their siblings a sense of independence, curiosity and the love of education. Her parents, Ta Alexander Kajumulo and Ma Auleria Teyolekererwa were both small scale farmers and cultivated mostly bananas and coffee. Seasonally they also cultivated beans and groundnuts, sweet potatoes cassava, bambara nuts, millet and sorghum. Both her father and mother encouraged her and all their children (2 boys and 9 girls) to go to school. To date, Prof Amelia remembers the powerful inspiring words from her father: “Being a girl is not a handicap”. Her mother on the other hand, encouraged them differently. She used to say that she, herself did not get a chance to go to school and she was very sorry, because she could not read and write. She used to say “I do not want my children to be ignorant like me.” However, both parents worked very hard, paid school fees and gave them pocket money, let alone dedicating time as a follow up of their performance. The young Amelia used to score very good grades in Mathematics, and she liked the subject. Some teachers who made a permanent impression to her were her Std IV teachers, Mwalimu Simon and Mwalimu Laurian. “Their teaching approach was encouraging. They were quite demanding and used to motivate us by giving prizes to best students in all subjects,” Prof Amelia remembers, “I can proudly say that I was often one of those who won these prizes.” She attended Kashozi Girls Middle School -boarding– 1960-1963 that was run by Catholic White Sisters, whose teachers included: the White Sisters from the United Kingdom, Tanzanian nuns and some civilian female teachers. All of them worked as a team in teaching and mentoring students and her Headmistress was Sister Kanelm, a disciplinarian and motherly, who used to inspire students to pursue their special talents including singing, sports, drama and other talents. She later attended Rosary College (currently Nganza) in Mwanza, 1964-1967 that was run by Catholic Merinol Sisters from the US, where she opted for science subjects namely Chemistry, Biology, and Geography and performed well. Thereafter, she qualified for Form V pre-selection to join Korogwe Girls Secondary School in 1969 and majored in Biology, Chemistry and Geography, but due to poor health, her performance at A-Level was average and hence did not qualify for direct entry to the University then. However, she qualified to pursue a Diploma Course in Fisheries Science (1970-1972) at Kunduchi Fisheries Institute and passed with flying colours. Prof Amelia had several role models and the very first one was her eldest sister, Ma Anthonia who is now a retired midwife nurse. “I used to admire her smart white uniforms, especially her “cap” and she used to tell us very interesting stories about her career to be, which inspired me to wish to have a career when I grow up,” she remembers. Another one was Mwalimu Alphoncina who was the leader of the Girl Guide Club and a Domestic Science teacher. Mwalimu Alphoncina was very good in sewing, designing dresses, knitting, cooking modern dishes and she inspired many students to learn and acquire as many skills as possible including playing a number of sports. Professional journey After pursuing her Diploma in Fisheries Science, her first appointment was in civil service as Natural Resources Officer in Mtwara District in 1972-1973. She was later transferred to a Fisheries Institute in Mwanza as a Freshwater Biology Researcher, where she worked for two years (1973-1975). She later got a chance to join the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) under mature age entry qualification and took a BSc degree (majoring in Zoology and Marine Sciences). After her graduation in 1978, she was employed as tutor in Marine Sciences at Kunduchi Fisheries Institute where she taught for two years. It is in the course of her undergraduate studies at the UDSM that she developed an interest in microbiology and decided to pursue the subject. She got an opportunity to do so at Stockholm University in Sweden, where she lived with her family for four years when her husband was taking his PhD studies. Since she had not studied microbiology as a subject at undergraduate level in Tanzania, she had to take a number of courses in microbiology at the same level in Sweden. “The challenge was that studies were in Swedish and so I had to learn the language first,” she remembers. Another challenge was that she did not have a scholarship but since her husband was studying under the sponsorship of Swedish Institute, she was allowed to look for a job, which she did and worked for 18 months before she could save enough money to enable her start formal studies. Parallel to her work at Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm as a Nutrition Assistant, she took more courses in Swedish language and became fluent and that made it possible for her to get admission into an international MSc programme in Microbiology by coursework and dissertation. She graduated in 1984. Prof Amelia holds MSc and PhD in Applied Microbiology with specialisation in Anaerobic Digestion in Lignicellulosic Waste. In simple language anaerobic digestion is a technical term used to describe transforming organic matter into valuable products in the absence of oxygen. On the other hand, lignocellulosic waste stands for fibrous plant waste (residues) materials, which include cereal straws namely maize stover, wheat/ rice/barley/rye straws, bean thrush, sugarcane bagasse and others. For her PhD research, she used the innovative technology that emulates digestive tracts of ruminants such as cows, sheep and goats among others and succeeded to produce industrial acids and biogas from wheat, rye and barley straw. “I used this technology because ruminants are efficient in digesting plant matter (dry grass, leaves) by the help of microorganisms in their stomachs. Over the years, Prof Amelia focus has been on utilising organic waste to biogas, mushrooms and biofertiliser. “These are very valuable products and much needed by our society as energy source, protein rich food for better nutrition, and for sustainable agriculture,” she explains. Since the raw materials are waste or residues, industrial scale productions of these products are environmentally friendly and cost-effective to add value to waste materials as bio-resources. According to the Professor, this is a bio-economy approach which is being advocated for by the United Nations as a means towards sustainable development. Prof Amelia’s research benefits to Tanzania Her various research efforts have contributed to knowledge on suitable waste materials that can be used to cost-effectively produce biogas, cultivate mushrooms and make organic fertilizer. Through her efforts, she has also established methods for the production of these products. On the part of biogas, she has provided information on alternative raw materials for biogas production instead of cow dung manure that was previously known to be the only raw material. The outcome of her personal research and that of her research team has been as follows: The emerging mushroom industry has developed significantly: from zero growers in 1993 to more than 5000 to date. Formation of the Tanzania Mushroom Growers Association Establishment of numerous mushroom seed producing facilities spread in many regions. Adoption of small scale biogas technology utilizing waste materials (solid waste and wastewater) instead of cow dung manure by small holder farmers and factories. Their first research findings were part of the basis for the conception and installation of the first large scale biogas plant utilizing sisal waste at Hale, Tanga. Adoption of organic fertilizer instead of chemical fertilizer (or as supplementary) by small holder and large scale farmers of onions, rice, maize and avocado has contributed on the increase of such crops in Tanzania in recent years. However, the Professor is concerned with the way research pieces of advice/recommendations are valued in Tanzania and Africa at large. “It is unfortunate that most of our science-based research findings do not make impact because they are either incomplete due to inadequate funding or not in demand or not disseminated adequately,” she notes. She urges that to ensure proper use of research findings, there is a need to involve the direct benefimake ciaries/users at the very beginning through formal partnerships with the private sector. This approach, according to her, will ensure building of trust between researchers (academia) and private sector partners for smooth technological uptake and eventual commercialization. “Apart from basic research, applied research must be carried out to address societal needs and in this way, research findings will make an impact and be valued,” she notes. Retired but not tired Although Prof. Amelia is formally retired from public service, she is still active in different scientific endeavors. In collaboration with industrial partners, she is currently involved in developing a commercial grade-biofertilizer. They are in the last stage of developing an innovative, affordable, commercial grade and nitrogen-rich organic fertilizer for East African small- holder farmers. “Our inspiration came after realizing that soil infertility on small holder farms in East Africa is one of the root causes of low agricultural productivity and that very few farmers apply fertilizer on their farms due mostly to high cost of chemical fertilizers,” Prof. Amelia who is the project Leader of this three-year initiative says. Her university, the UDSM being the Lead institution, is collaborating with public institutions namely Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), Makerere University and the Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) and partners from the private sector including Guavay Co. Ltd in Tanzania and Tursam Investment in Uganda. In developing the organic fertilizer (bio-fertilizer) the team is applying a simple composting technology and fortifying the product with organic sourced nitrogen. Their raw materials are selected waste fractions from market places and other sources in Dar es Salaam. It is anticipated that the new fertilizer product will be adopted by small holder farmers whose farm productivity will be increased as a result of improved soil fertility. It is also hoped that increased productivity will result in improved livelihood due to increased income. “As the demand for the fertilizer increases, increased production will be required and new jobs along the value chain will be created,” she says. A need for supporting policies, financial incentives to develop biogas projects Although Tanzania has huge potential for development of large scale biogas technology, not much has been achieved so far. The problem, according to Prof. Amelia, has been high costs of plant installations and lack of motivation and incentives on the part of the government. She says that the main specific incentives would include carbon credits and carbon trading programmes and tax exemption. Other drivers would be close enforcement of environmental laws to make industries that generate organic waste (and wastewater) to opt for biogas technology as means of treating their waste for example: a mandatory requirement to divert organic materials from landfills. “This would for sure make the City Council opt to use biogas technology to treat the organic waste being dumped into landfills,” she stresses. The biotechnologist notes that diversification of energy sources is essential to provide energy security and sustainability. “Many countries that are even energy-richer than us are exploring other sources of energy especially renewable ones such as bioenergy (biogas) and solar energy,” the Professor says. She was the founding member and first Head of Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology (MBB) at the UDSM. MBB Department started in 1987 as a unit in Botany Department and was known as Applied Microbiology Unit (AMU). It was established under a 10 year project sponsored by the Dutch government. The project was managed by a coordinator and the first coordinator was the late Prof. Adelaide Semesi from whom she took over in 1996. In January 2005, AMU became a full full-fledged department of MBB. The Professor believes that females in general have got talents and potential to excel in their fields of interest and that “They need to be given equal opportunities as men to fully develop their talents and potentials.” She adds: “Whenever compliment is due to a female scientist or artist for outstanding achievement, it should be given to her.” As a leader in differ benefimake unilateral decisions, listening to team members, work hard with self-confidence and be prepared to learn from others. During the course of her scientific career, many achievements were obtained and are elaborated in her book entitled “Towards a Bio-economy- Exploring opportunities for utilization of organic waste and weeds for production of valuable products.” Girl empowerment It is Prof. Amelia’s opinion that girls need to have role models at an early age that will inspire them to work hard in school because without such people, the girl child will tend to believe what the community largely believes till to date that a girl’s place is with her husband. “The mindset of the immediate community needs to change and it can only change if parents especially mothers change their ways in raising their children,” she notes, adding that “Mothers need to stop discrimination in assigning home chores or teaching life skills to their children. Girls should not feel that they can only be good at house chores and not good at more challenging jobs in life.” The problem of early (children) pregnancies, says the Professor, is another issue which needs to be addressed by parents, the community at large and policy makers. This is a predicament undermining the efforts made in sending girls to school. Creating a pool of future women scientists Prof. Amelia believes that instilling interest of the girl child in science subject(s) right from primary school level would be a best approach to add the number of future women scientists. According to her, teaching methods do matter. “If it is co-education class (boys and girls) equity in the classroom must be observed. This means that girls should not be left behind,” she explains. And if it is a girl-only class, inculcating self-confidence is critical. Another important thing is having well-trained science teachers with mentoring skills across the board. She has an advice to young people: “Life is about making choices and do not allow anyone to make a choice or decide for you. You need to take a stand and avoid peer pressure hence you need to know what you want for yourself.” She does not accept failure and keep on trying. Besides, she believes in the infinite power of education and keeps on challenging herself. “If it was not for those personal traits, I would not have made it considering the many hurdles that I had to cross,” Prof. Amelia says. She is blessed with two sons, Allen and Alexander and three grandchildren. She has been recently appointed a Professor Emerita at the UDSM. Emmanuel Rubagumya writes about science, technology and innovation. Email: innovationstz@gmail.com