MORE potential suppliers of goods and services are currently using the national electronic procurement system and are giving a thumbs-up, just a year after the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) launched the e-system. PPRA adopted the system in the 2018/19 fiscal year, registering at least 80 procuring entities and suppliers as a pilot project before fully launching it during the 2019/20 financial year. Eng Bashiri Rwesingisa, Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroad) Manyara Regional Manager, said during the ongoing 17th Annual Engineers Day held here, that the system had increased transparency in the entire procurement chain. “This system has revolutionized the entire process. It gives accounting officers the power to integrate as key stakeholders,” he said. It also contains a list of all registered engineers across the country. He observed that the national e-procurement system was friendly, urging suppliers and entities to update their information into the system so as to facilitate efficiency and proficiency in the public procurement process. PPRA launched the online portal in line with the government’s earnest initiatives to better leverage data and harness new technologies to improve lives. Eng Leonard Kapongo, PPRA Chief Executive Officer, told reporters on the sideline of the ongoing 17th annual engineers day exhibitions that the authority resolved to intensify public awareness campaigns to ensure it reaches all key stakeholders. According to the CEO, the exhibitions bring on board engineers, contractors and consultants who form a key part of public procurement. “Our team will be in full attendance to provide all the needed knowledge. I thereby call upon engineers across the country to come and register with the national e-procurement system in accordance with the law,” he said. The system which was developed by local technocrats helps to cut the cost of operations to bidders and entities as well as limiting loopholes for corruption and related activities. It also increases the number of participants competitively, more transparently, effectively and efficiently to ensure value for money.