ACT-Wazalendo Zanzibar presidential candidate Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad yesterday officially launched his campaign for the Isles presidency, pledging better life for all Zanzibaris. The 77-year-old politician, who defected from the Civic United Front (CUF) last year said he was prepared to take up the Isles top post, to improve the lives of the people including pushing for three-government structure. “Let us pray to God. Thanks for a good turn-up, this is a good beginning for our bid to the Zanzibar State House,” Mr Hamad told the crowd dressed in the party’s colours of pink and white at the 'Democracy Ground' in Zanzibar Municipality. Hamad, who is vying for the presidency for the sixth time, encouraged his followers and fans to remain vigilant and turn out in huge numbers to vote the party into the high office. If elected, he promised reforms in the judiciary system and the legislature including the president not appointing high court judges, and the House of Representatives responsibility will remain to oversee the Executive (government). “Media and information freedom and process to draft new Zanzibar constitution are other areas of concentration when elected President on October 28th, 2020,” Mr Hamad said, adding that he will introduce 'Zanzibari National Identity Cards," without discrimination. The ACT-Wazalendo chairman promised to propel Zanzibar's economic growth and also promised zero tolerance to corrupt leaders in his government. He rallied the youth and women to support his presidential bid edged on job and wealth creation, along with attracting investors. He said higher education loans will be replaced by free education to university, along with improving the sports venues across the island to encourage sports in the country. “Since our economy will be good, the unmarried youths will definitely be able to marry,” he said with a light touch. If elected, he promised to complete the construction of Terminal III at the Zanzibar airport, and also a new modern port without needing a sovereign guarantee for loans from the union government. The party's Deputy Secretary General Mr Nassor Seif Mazrui said this year's elections remain crucial for ACT-Wazalendo members to take it seriously. Mr Zitto Kabwe- the party leader said “We are determined to revive the call for a new Union constitution that will pave way for three tier governments so that Zanzibar becomes more independent as it appears in the party manifesto."