UNLIKE other feline who leads solitary life lions preferably live in a communal social group called pride where they work together and share resources according to highly respected rules of the jungle which state survival for the strongest and death to weakest. Previous lions were believed to live together so that they may hunt successful in their pride land measuring about 20 square kilometres but 35 years long research in Serengeti national park has revealed many fascinating facts behind lions social and economy system characterized by communal ownership of the pride land and its resources which is elaborated by a cooperative hunting technique. Meanwhile, since the beginning of modern history many years has come and go away leaving behind a lot of memories but 1989 will always be remembered as a shocking one after the crumbling of socialism which dominated headlines for more than sixty years. From Moscow, London, Delhi to Beijin as strong believers of the communal economy were trembling with fear that the shadow of doomsday was landing on Earth in the middle of African savannah the natural socialism was gaining ground like at the time when it was invented millions of years ago by lions and hyenas communities. To get the real picture more than 130 years ago Karl Marx, a great philosopher from Germany said “class” is determined entirely by one’s relationship to the means of production. In general terms the meaning of class does’nt end in our villages, townships and cities where the difference is clearly seen from one person to another or a location against others. From our neighbourhood, social classes are available in national parks such as Mikumi, Tarangire, Saadani, Ruaha and special reserved areas such as Ngorongoro Conservation Area, class differences are noticeable in sky, water and in the savannah where its submissively practiced by Spotted Hyenas and forcefully by lions. Unlike other communal societies of savannah, spotted hyenas live in a large social organization which is governed by a hierarchical structural system, the social system of hyena is competitive also differentiate itself from Karl Marxs theory of class because it opens a wide door of oppression for some of its members. Hyenas may work together while searching for a kill but afterwards access for food is limited to those who have power to dominate others, this cause frustrations and chaotic situation to weaker members in the pack who may be forced to work hard to earn a meal at the time of food scarcity. Mostly these aggressive behaviours are displayed by males which oppressively deny others the crucial mating opportunities with estrous females in the clan. On other side it has been revealed that among lions there is great possibilities for selfish gluttonous lion that live alone in an area to hunt and feed satisfactorily on a medium prey but may lose it easily to a group of hungry hyenas but lions who live together and work for extra hours to get a bigger pray such as African buffalo to feed the hungry mouths of its every member are in no position to lose their food to any intruder. During a hunting episode a lion who weigh 250 kilogrammes with top speed of 40 km per hour and is unable to chase and capture a Zebra with a top speed of 52 km per hour or wildebeest’s 57.5 km per hour so depend on lioness whose bodies weight is 180 kilogrammes and capable of attaining a top speed of 60 km per hour to hunt for him. While on duty lionesses who are specialist hunters arrange themselves according to experience, courage and sharpness of decision making on where, when and how to attack, who is responsible to take a leading role of bringing down the prey and making the killing bite while others are holding it down firmly to accomplish the deadly mission. A strong and qualified lioness will quickly open her mouth up to 35 centimetres wide to force its 30 sharp teeth into the neck to block the air pipe and suffocate its victim to death. On the other side zoologists say spotted hyenas are opportunists which take selfish advantage of any circumstance regardless of rules and outcomes to others. In our neighbourhoods many people believe spotted hyenas are thieves who use fearful and offal voice to terrify their victims. Some people say spotted hyenas are filth animals who live by eating rotten animal carcasses which are abandoned by smart predators such as leopard. On the other hand, scientists say these are smart animals which are equipped with a big brain capable of solving different problems. This is a unique ability among animals which enable spotted hyenas to utilize all opportunities presented to them by nature in the savannah. In a different way, spotted hyenas are capable to hunt and kill their own prey or eat corpse of animals which dies from natural cause. Brown hyenas of southern Africa live in a social hierarchy system where the strongest male and female form a coalition to dominate others in the pack which may consist of more than six individuals. In some species of hyenas male and female unite to raise their offspring while subjugating other weaker pairs in a home range covering more than 44 square kilometres. This is a dominance situation whereby an individual through suppressive fighting establish itself as a leader of others in a clan of hyenas. After obtaining the highest position, the aggressor must use different tactics to stop sub dominant individuals from overpowering him or her. The dominant hyena use threats display which force weaker individuals to avoid him or her but those which are aspiring for the throne may try to fight with the incumbent leader. Not only that, the crown holder is forced to work very hard through fighting to acquire new hunting grounds at the expense of his energy and sometime injuries. Spotted hyenas are not super predators but this is only possible because of their social life which enables them to live in a large group consisting up to 130 individuals. To make things go well, the group is then divided into smaller families which are controlled by females. Its estimated that at one time a family of spotted hyenas may consist not less than five cubs which depends on their mother for food and protection. As we have seen from the beginning this is matrilineal society so male are allowed to live in their natal group until they are three years. There after any male who goes above that limit is forced out and migrate to bachelor groups. On the other hand, females are allowed to stay in the family while following the classes of their mothers. Scientists say these rules are good because they enable to breed, hunt and occupy an area in the savannah as their territory. Normally spotted hyenas work or hunt individually but when they encounter a big prey they call others to join force and bring down a buffalo weighing more than 900 kilogrammes. Among animals in the savannah these are very special because in a clearly established hierarchical structural system, the aggressor will allow others to access food and other benefits available within the group. These are opportunity to reproduce which sub dominant males may fight for so that they may avoid to die as barrens or fruitless in wildness. The health, age and aggressive behaviours of the incumbent leader influence the situation of the pack as contenders of the throne are always on target. To put a total grip of a group, male hyenas increase their testosterone level, in conjunction with other hormones from the adrenal glands he builds enough energy to fight competitors and breed with almost every estrous female. Among spotted hyenas females are larger than male, the big body size enables them to be dominant and demand respect from everyone in pack including males. In order to a foreign male to be welcomed into a strange pack he must associate himself with the dominant female who may allow him inn or force him out. Many activities are involved here in a complex social society of hyena in the savannah. These are always displayed at the beginning of the day when a full pack walks up and embark on group ritualized greeting activity. Among the entire anatomic class of mammals, these are warmest, passionate, sensational and lovely greeting procedure because it involves the licking alpha females genital parts. This is an emotional act which forces all subordinate individuals to submissively salute their queen or risk being forced out of the pack. This is also a bound practice which brings together all potential hunters in pack as the alpha female is organizing and leading a coalition for hunting activity. Handy shake is a common greeting gesture in our neighbourhood but among hyena societies grooming is a passion gesture for greetings. To be greeted, the high ranking hyena always rise one of its hind legs while the lower ranking member bow down to lick the genital part. This may be defined as a jungle salute which is conducted through opposite way from the common military one which force the subordinate initiate the act and wait for his superior to respond. By licking the genital parts of high ranking females who owns the packs, spotted hyenas motivate each other while defending their territory or attacking a dangerous prey such as African buffalo. On their side the social economy of lions is very important because sick, inexperienced and coward lioness who cant even dare to chase a scary looking wildebeest so must be forced to live in a pride where they live on supplies from their four to seven stronger mothers, aunties and sisters who work tirelessly to feed the whole pride which may be made up of 15 members who are 10 females with their young and two or three lions who are pride owners. If these old and weak lionesses do’nt attach themselves in a strong pride they may end up feeding on carcasses or small and weak prey even hunting people in villages at night. A strong and inexperienced lioness of a pride joins hand to hunt a prey according to season and geographical position in the wide savannah forest of Serengeti, Mikumi or Ruaha national park where the feline rule but when they encounter a very large prey such as African buffalo weighing about 1,000 kilogrammes they must seek assistance from male members to bring it down. Unlike cheetah, leopards and other felines within a lion pride female members work together to milk and bringing up their cubs without segregation which enable an orphan youngster who lost its mother to grow very well like those who their mothers are still alive. Among lions community the social economy has no equal distribution of food because of their habit of scrambling and fight when eating which make weak, sick and cubs to feed on small amount of leftovers but yet they will continue to stick on the pride for many years of their entire lives. rstanslaus@yahoo.com