THREE people, including two from the same family died while nine passengers, one of them an elderly lady aged 100 years, were injured in two separate road accidents in Katavi region. The Katavi Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr Benjamin Kuzaga confirmed the two road accidents, saying one of them involved a Toyota Land Cruiser pick up, property of Tanzania National Parks (Tanapa), with registration numbers SU 36810. He explained that the accident occurred on September 5, this year shortly before midnight, along the Mpanda - Sumbawanga High Way at Mtisi village at Sitalike Ward in Mpanda district in the region. He further explained that on that fateful night, the Tanapa vehicle knocked a motorcycle carrying three people, killing them on the spot. “The two siblings from the same family and the driver of the motorbike, whose identity has not been established, died instantly ....the unknown driver was riding a Sanlag motorbike with registration numbers MC 745 BRZ. Their bodies are being preserved at the Katavi Referral facility here in Mpanda waiting to be identified by relatives and for burial arrangements,” he added. The RPC said the other road accident involved a TATA vehicle with registration numbers T748 DJD which was coming from Mpanda town to Majimoto village in Mlele district. According to the RPC, the accident occurred on September 5 this year at 4:00 pm along the Mpanda - Kibaoni road inside the Katavi National Park, where the speeding vehicle veered off the road and overturned. The nine passengers on board cheated death by a whisker and all of them sustained multiple injuries. He further confirmed that the driver of the ill- fated vehicle, Isakwisa Mwaipopo has been arrested and will soon be arraigned in court as preliminary investigations of his case are over. He named the wounded passengers to include a woman aged 100 years Noelia Magwisha, a resident of Mpanda, and the youngest, Neema Shega (2), from Magula Village in Mpanda district. Others are Maria Vitus (8), Saada Salumu (28) Michael Manoti (28) and Anna Furahisha (43), all residents from Kilida Village in Mlele District. Others on the list are Janeth Charles (26) from Magula village, Lucas Madaha (40) from Mamba in Mlele District and Michael Manoti (28) a nurse working at Kilida dispensary. He added that all the wounded passengers have been admitted at Katavi Regional Referral facility here in Mpanda for treatment.