FORMER Prime Minister, Mizengo Pinda over the weekend blasted those who mock President John Magufuli’s implemented and ongoing projects, saying that his work does not tantamount to any sin. In addition, Mr. Pinda said it was absurd to say that major projects implemented by the government, including that of Julius Nyerere Hydro Power project, have no direct connection in development of Tanzanians. Mr Pinda made the statement here on Saturday during a press conference, shortly after arriving in Moshi to campaign for CCM’s Presidential, Parliamentary and Councillor aspirants in Kilimanjaro region. "Major projects anywhere in the world are good and main sources of economic growth, so it is a misconception to say that they have nothing to do with the interests of the people… such opinion is nonsense and should not draw attention of the public. Some critics have been mocking the good work performed by President Magufuli and his government," he explained. Elaborating, Mr Pinda said that the Julius Nyerere Hydro power project would be an assurance that the country has enough electricity to boost its national and economic growth especially through the industrialization drive, adding that the surplus of the electricity produced would be sold to the neighbouring countries and thus increase the national foreign exchange. Regarding the purchase of aircrafts, the former Premier said that this was a good decision taken, because the country is strategically positioned in the region to generate a lot of revenue from its use. “We have a vast tourism industry, so there is a need to have a reliable airline reinforced by purchased new aircrafts, which are enough. If we promote and make good use of our tourism attractions…the number of tourists in the country will increase and we’ll embark also on using our planes to increase revenue and bring development to all Tanzanians, regardless of their statuses," he said. Commenting on the ongoing campaigns, Mr Pinda said there was no doubt that President Magufuli would return to power with a majority of votes and continue with his good work witnessed in the past five years. "It is obvious President Magufuli will get a lot of votes, President Magufuli's government implemented well the CCM’s 2015 election manifesto, well enough to satisfy the people, who are now anxious to see the CCM government continuing to lead the country for another term," pointed out the former premier. However, he called upon all CCM members to join forces and see into it that the ruling party leaders at all levels as well as their candidates become winners in the General Elections scheduled for October 28, this year.