TANZANIANS who pursued their studies in China are set to benefit from a venture fund for them to engage in entrepreneurial activities, with the ultimate goal of tackling unemployment among the youth in the country. The move aims at enabling them to demonstrate skills acquired during their studies, Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Wang Ke has said. According to her, in implementing the strategy, the embassy will cooperate with some institutions that are capable of supporting their career growth. “From next year, the embassy together with Chinese companies in Tanzania will hold a job fair for Tanzanian students who graduated from China and provide a two- way choice for the graduates and the enterprises,” she said. The initiative by the embassy is in line with the comments by President John Magufuli and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who have repeatedly encouraged Tanzanian youths to start their own businesses instead of waiting for employment from the government. Currently, there are about 5,000 Tanzanian students who are studying in China, where over 600 students are under the scholarship of the government of China. This year alone, the embassy has sponsored over 110 Tanzanian students who are studying various courses that are of higher demand in the country. “It is our hope that the graduates will actively participate in the social and economic construction of Tanzania and maintain the commitment to develop the traditional friendship between the two countries,” she said. The diplomat added that in the process of pursuing national independence, social progress and improving people’s living standard, China and Tanzania have successful experience worth learning from each other. She also acknowledged the efforts that President Magufuli has taken to achieve the economic and social development to enable the country enter in the low-middle income level before 2025. For his part, former Tanzania’s Ambassador to China, Lt. Gen. (Ret) Abdulrahman Shimbo commended the dedication that the world’s second economic giant is taking to promote social welfare of Tanzanians through various opportunities. Ambassador Shimbo who served the post in Beijing between 2013 and 2017 said it was encouraging to have diplomatic relations that bring positive impacts to all parts. “Those who would benefit from the opportunities being offered by the embassy should make a better use of it, as the aim is to boost their career,” he noted. For their part, some Tanzanians studying in China thanked their host country for taking good care of them during the outbreak of Covid-19, and ensured that none of them was affected by the virus.