THE Engineers Registration Board (ERB) instituted several disciplinary measures against 264 members for various misconducts in the past five years. ERB Registrar, Eng Patrick Barozi cited the statistics here yesterday, while briefing reporters ahead of their 17th Annual Engineers Day scheduled to take place in Dodoma from September 3- 4 at the Jakaya Kikwete Convention Centre. He said the board with 29,019 registered engineers countrywide; normally take disciplinary measures against any errant members, where 264 of them have been penalised in the past five years. Eng Barozi further said the members had their licences revoked, some suspended and some had severe warning, as they waited for their investigations to be completed. The Registrar said in the meeting more than 5,000 engineers would participate both virtually and on face to face under the theme ‘Fourth Industrial Revolution Towards Achieving SDGs: Challenges and Opportunities for Engineers.’ During the meeting about 500 new engineers were registered and would take oath, which among others to observe of professionalism and ethics. The Registrar said the board will keep on undertaking the role to regulate engineering practice in the country and promoting engineering excellence amongst local engineers, adding: “That would enhance the engineering consulting firms with a view to enhancing their competitiveness and professionalism in the engineering practice.” Earlier, Chairman of the Engineers Day Organising Committee, Eng Bakari Mwinyiwiwa, said they will focus on elaborating professionalism including recognizing new entrants. He said the platform intends to stress on the need of professionalism and ethics in all the engineering fields, adding: “We intend to showcase the capacity and capability of local engineers and their contribution in the nation, particularly in economic advancement.” A number of presentations like Digital Transformation of Africa: A disruptive New World Order in Africa’s Favour, Local content to promote Engineers and technicians and technological innovation to meet the SDGs would be some of the subjects lined up for discussions. It would also be attended by foreign participants from Zimbabwe, Kenya, Nigeria, Uganda, Rwanda, Egypt, Malawi, Botswana and Kenya.