SEVEN Burundians have been sentenced to one-year imprisonment after they were convicted of entering and living in the United Republic of Tanzania without processing valid residential permits. Immigration Department Prosecutor Respicius John told Ngara District Magistrate Emmanuel Gavela that 20 illegal immigrants, including five women and eight children, were held at Rusumo Village on Monday afternoon aboard a vehicle and the driver escaped. The magistrate said the five women and the eight children were on conditional discharge and he directed the Immigration Department to deport them to their country of origin. Earlier, the magistrate had sentenced the illegal immigrants (all men) to pay a fine of 1m/- or serve one year imprisonment. However, they failed to pay the fine and were taken to Ngara District Prison to serve their sentence. Meanwhile, the Immigration Department in Kagera Region has tightened patrols along border areas to ensure no foreigner or illegal immigrant enters the country during the election period without processing residential permits. The Kagera Regional Immigration Officer (RIO) Hamza Shabani told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview at his office that special patrol units comprising immigration officials have been formed along Rusumo on Rwanda border, Kabanga (Burundi) and Mutukula (Uganda). The patrols have been extended to Bugango in Missenyi District and Murongo in Kyerwa District. “During Covid-19 Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi imposed a lockdown while lorries carrying transit goods were allowed to enter the countries. Special patrol units comprising immigration officials have been formed in border areas to control illegal immigrants especially during this period as the nation prepares for the general election,” he said. Kagera Region shares borders with four East African Community (EAC) nations - Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Kenya. He said immigration officials in collaboration with village leaders were working closely to identify people who lived in the United Republic of Tanzania without processing residential permits. Mr Shabani appealed to residents in the region to report aliens to authorities for necessary measures. “The border between a country and another is an opportunity to people living in the area. People should use border areas to do business and improve their standards of living provided that they meet all legal requirements. Our role as the government is to ensure these people benefit, but they should follow immigration regulations,” he said.