“START by doing what's necessary; then do what's possible; and suddenly you are doing the impossible.” This is a famous quote credited to Saint Francis of Assisi, an Italian Catholic friar, deacon, philosopher, mystic, and preacher who founded the Franciscan orders of the Friars Minor, the women's Order of St. Clare, and the lay Third Order. This is how the story of a 100-year-old Mzee Frederick Mchauru, one of the first Permanent Secretaries of the post-colonial government of Tanganyika under founder president Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere begins. “Every government phase operated during its time and made changes that were necessary for the time and season they reigned. It would not be right to compare them as each phase under our ruling party Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) made a significant development. People should stop blaming and comparing the government phases as they operated according to what was needed by then; and most important of all, they were guided by the foundation set by our Father of the Nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere,” Mzee Mchauru says. Mzee Mchauru was one of the first Principal Secretaries in the first five years of Mwalimu Nyerere’s administration. “Every phase did its part, guided by the foundation set by Mwalimu, and in all the five phases peace has been maintained, as many countries, especially in Africa, are crying for peace. It is something that Tanzanians should treasure dearly,” the centenarian says. “The current government under President John Magufuli is heading in the right direction. To that end, I will say two words on the subject of our country and the government. My overview comment is that since independence to date our government structure and culture has not changed which is unfortunate. The majority of the systems, structure, laws and institutions that form our government have remained the same.” The colonial structure and laws were inherited from our British colonial masters while the needs of the country, its people and the times have changed significantly,” he says, adding “We must reform the Tanzania government especially the systems, structure, laws and institutions. How to do it; I leave it on the hands of the youth. We do have fine young men and women that we have educated who can determine how to reform our government. However, as one of the longest serving civil servants my advice is that we must reform our government.” Joining the Tanganyika British administration Meeting Mzee Mchauru at his residence in Dar es Salaam, the centenarian still walks and reads his books while his memory is also as fresh as a young man. He still remembers his youthful days, recalling his various tours in the country and beyond when he held various leadership positions. His photographs portray him as an energetic young man with a strict face of an administrator.  He was recruited into the British Colonial Government Service in 1947, and by 1948 he was posted to Tabora as an Assistant Social Development Officer. “My new occupation had its challenges: from 1948 to 1952, I was in-charge of the social welfare for almost half of Tanganyika which widely covered the Western, Lake, and Southern Highlands provinces. My jurisdiction extended from Mara, Kagera and Mwanza in the north to Kigoma, Tabora, Rukwa, half of Dodoma, Mbeya, Iringa, Ruvuma, Lindi, and all the way through Mtwara in the south. My friend, one Marealle, was in-charge of the Eastern, Central and Northern provinces with his office located in Morogoro. It was one hell of a job,” he explains. His initial tasks included setting up libraries and social welfare centres in urban areas which were being prepared for the demobilized King’s African Rifles soldiers. They also participated in environmental protection by helping to curb soil erosion and were advocates in promoting adult literacy. In 1952, he was transferred to Mtwara to oversee community social development schemes; and in 1954, returned to Newala and worked as a Social Development Officer until 1956. In 1960, he became a Senior Community Development Officer and was transferred to Mbulu. Later in 1962, he was promoted to Principal Community Development Officer tasked to take over management of the Community Development Training Centre in Tengeru until 1963. “While at Tengeru I started to enjoy government work. I had worked alone since 1948 and here I found an intact administration, the large teams of subordinates, motor vehicles, and wider use of equipment was a breath of fresh air. In addition, I also had a secretary,” Mzee Mchauru recalls. “Later as we moved through independence, we introduced special leadership courses (at district and regional levels) for local leaders, administrators, administrative officers, and area commissioners. By 1963, I was promoted to Assistant Commissioner for Community Development and later became the Commissioner for Community Development (1964-1965).” Mzee Mchauru served the nation in various capacities from Assistant Development Officer to Principal Secretary of five different ministries. When he retired from the civil service, he exited through the gate of the Ministry of Defence and National Service. “Uongozi” (leadership) during that time was easy -- we had one cause and that is fighting for “Uhuru” (independence). I knew Mwalimu in Tabora when he was a teacher and I was in the government; what he did in setting the foundation that we now call uhuru, was a great work,” Mzee Mchauru says. “What leaders are doing now is to continue building on the foundation of freedom set by Mwalimu. I believe you cannot do anything without putting God first and that is why I appreciate what Magufuli is doing as well.” Family When you meet Mzee Mchauru, you immediately appreciate his golden age as he has lived for a century. He was born on April 25, 1920. Mzee Mchauru is a father of 11 children, seven of whom are deceased. He is also blessed with 24 grandchildren and 23 great grandchildren. “I want to thank God for the gift of a wonderful family that has been the source of my joy and strength. You can tell a great leader from the way he treats and cares for his family. Leadership starts at home. I have given love and have received love, joy and comfort for the most part from my family and for that I thank the Lord my saviour.” However, Mzee Mchauru revealed that loneliness is his biggest problem now. He had been in various offices of the government and made friends in his professional journey but most of them are deceased. “If any of them are still alive, I would like to know and may be they can even pay me a visit. I know now life is very demanding,” he says. The former Director of Ashanti Gold Mine from 1998 to 2002 has a new selfless friend who effortlessly breaks for him the boredom of life; that’s reading. He is a lover of knowledge and education, saying that if he lived in the ancient times, he would perhaps have been a philosopher. “I have been in love with education, reading books and acquiring knowledge all my life and I feel that there is more to read and acquire in knowledge and education.” He said that if there is one thing that has determined his destiny above it is education. From very early in his life, education opened, first his mind, then the door to his entire life and future. Everything “I have done and achieved originated from education and it was through education I was able to meet my wife and start a family.” Apart from all the professional aspects of his life, Mzee Mchauru is a fan of Manchester United and Azam Football Club. “I believe that only three things have been at the centre of my life and have determined my destiny: Education, Civil Service within the Government and my Family,” he says. He says he is very grateful for the gift of life that God has bestowed upon him. Living for a century and being sane is indeed a gift and privilege. “I have been alive with sound mind for almost 100 years observing the evolution of our beloved country and its people. With that background I can proud myself as one of few people who know Tanzania, its people and the government extremely well,” he says. “I am glad to bear witness to the history of Tanzanian from personal experience of the era that spans from the arrival of the British rulers to the Fifth Phase Government of Tanzania. I have been lucky to work for the government and after independence.” “Hakika nimemwona bwana maishani mwangu,” he concludes.