IT was quite interesting this week following registration of new players by professional soccer clubs in Europe which is worthy learning by our local clubs. Unlike what our local clubs do, in Europe, the soccer governing body, the UEFA restricts a club owner from using his or her money to buy a new player for his or her club. Even if the owner of the club is a multi-euro billionaire, he or she cannot use his or her money to buy even a single player for his or her club. Whatever new player the club wants to buy it can only use its own generated funds which can either be from gate collection, advertisement or sales of its jersey, caps or any of the club’s memorabilia. Club owners are barred from using their money in buying players for their respective clubs for two reasons. One, in order to bring about level playing field among the clubs in the league, and secondly, in order to ensure that soccer as a sport is also transformed into business by generating its own money. Other sources of income for clubs which can be used in buying top flight soccer players from other clubs both in Europe and beyond is through the sale of their own players from their own teams and their respective soccer academies. Clubs sell their less performing players to other clubs in order to get income for buying better and stronger players. Sometimes they sacrifice good players if they feel that that can raise adequate money for buying one or two players from other clubs. Clubs like Arsenal and Chelsea which have a very strong base of soccer academies, have since the opening of the window in Europe been selling some of their players from their teams and soccer academies in order to buy stronger and more experienced players from other clubs. Between the two, foregoing clubs, Chelsea have done very well, and a very good outfit for the season. The Gunners have also more or less done the same thing. But they have not been as successful as Chelsea. Now this is what our clubs, and in particular, those with little or no money could do. They need to introduce some form of soccer academies in their backyards. As I once noted in one of my sports columns, a club does not need to have an elaborate infrastructure the kind of what Azam FC has. What a club like Lipuli can do is get disciplined primary school children in Iringa town, say around 40 of between 10 and 12 and train them on the ball from their tender age. What the club can do is embark on the exercise through the agreement and cooperation of their parents and guardians. But the club should only make use of the children after studies which usually end at 2pm. This is what Young Africans did in 1970s through their Romanian coach, Professor Victor Stanculescu. For instance, the present crop of Mtibwa Sugar players is made up of U-20 players most of whom were prepared from tender age by the club. It was therefore not surprising last weekend when they gave Mainland premier league champions, Simba, a run for their money. If Mtibwa Sugar maintained or raised the form they displayed last weekend throughout the league season, I would not be surprised if they finished in the top three. The youthful players were a delight to watch. They were unlucky not to win against Simba. Otherwise they had everything that should have helped them romp to victory. My only fear is that this is not the first time Mtibwa Sugar brought in the league good players. They have done so in the past more than once. But they have always failed to finish at the apex in the league because of their failure to maintain their form, especially against weak teams. But for clubs like Simba and Yanga which are extremely popular and have millions of fans behind them, it is time they start making use of their strong fan base by selling them their jerseys and other club products. The jerseys currently donned by both clubs leave a lot to be desired. Take the red colour as a case in point. I have always wondered over its redness! Is it red, maroon or light red? The same thing can be said about Yanga. Yanga need to take a hard look on the green and yellow colours of the relegated English Premier League club, Norwich City. The quality of both jerseys and colours of the former English premier league club is what Yanga management need to get for their club, members and fans. The quality and colours of the former English Premier club is fantastic. The jerseys donned by fans from Simba and Yanga are of very poor quality. That need to change if both clubs want to use their jerseys and their other products like caps, wrist watches, scarfs and even tracksuits for generating money for their clubs. Given the millions of fans both clubs have, there is no reason why they should fail to generate adequate income for solving many of their financial problems. If they produce top quality jerseys, they would also force their sponsors to do the same thing, provide them with high quality jerseys.