FOUR people, including foreigners appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday facing several fraud and money laundering charges linked with acquisition of credit amounting to 300,000 US dollars (about 700m/-)  from Equity Bank. They were Mohamed Abdullah Nur, a South African, Umulkher Mohamed, a Somali national, Noel Shani, who is Assistant Registrar with Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) and Alex Ndondole, a Banker with the Bank of Equity. The charges against them includes conspiracy to commit an offence, forgery, uttering false documents, neglect to prevent commission of an offence, obtaining credit by false pretense and money laundering. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Rashid Chaunga, the accused persons were not allowed to enter plea to the charges because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate informed them that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail. He adjourned the case to September 7, 2020 and ordered the accused persons to remain in the hands of the police to allow them conduct some medical examinations, particularly, whether they have been infected with Civid-19 before being committee to remand prison. The prosecution, led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, informed the court that investigations into the matter are incomplete. Prosecuting, the trial attorney alleged that on diverse dates between March 1, 2011 and May 30, 2014 at various places in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the accused persons and others who are not in court conspired to obtaining credit by false pretense. The court heard that between April 18, 2011 and March 5, 2016 at City Garden Gerezani area and Alliance Cargo Handling Complex at Julius Nyerere International Airport, with intent to defraud the company, Mohamed and Umulkher allegedly forged Board Resolutions and a letter. According to the prosecution, the two foreigners purported to show that Alliance Cargo Company has resolved to open bank accounts at Equity Bank and at Amana Bank and that resolved to change its name to Africa Flight Service Tanzania. It was alleged also that the accused persons also pretended to show that the letter in question  was genuine issued by Brela and that Mohamed Nur is the Director of Alliance Cargo Handling Company Limited, the facts which he knew to be false. The prosecution alleged that between February 8, 2014 and May 5, 2016 at Equity Bank, Prestige Branch and Brela offices as well as Amana Bank, all within Ilala District in the City, knowingly and fraudulently, Mohamed uttered the said alleged false documents to the places. On February 10, 2014 at Equity Bank, Prestige Branch in Ilala District, with intent to defraud the Company, jointly and together the two foreigners caused an account in the name of the company to be credit with 300,000 US dollars as a loan. The accused persons allegedly pretended that the said loan was legally applied by Alliance Cargo Handling Company Limited, while it was untrue. Ndondole and another Banker identified as Emma Chikaonda, who was not in court, were charge with one count of neglect to prevent offence. The court heard that between February 8 and 15, 2014 at Equity Bank, being bank officers failed to use all reasonable means to prevent the commission of offence of obtaining credit by false pretences. Shan was also charged alone with a similar offence. It is alleged by the prosecution that between April 5 and 15, 2014 at Brela offices in Dar es Salaam, being Senior Assistant Registrar, failed to use all reasonable means to prevent the commission of offence of forgery. Mohamed and Umulkher were jointly charged with money laundering in that on February 10, 2014 at Equity Bank in Ilala District, acquired the 300,000 US dollars in an account in the name of the Alliance Cargo Company while they knew at the time of receipt it was proceed of predicate offence of forgery. The prosecution also charged all accused persons with money laundering in that on diverse dates between February 8 and April 5, 2014 at various places in Dar es Salaam, they allegedly engaged directly in a credit transaction involving money amounting to 300,000 US dollars as loan from Equity Bank.