TRUCKS for transporting hydrocarbons pose risks to human lives if not well managed. Transporting chemicals in major highways is cheaper and good for the economy but too risky in cases of accident. According to Energy and Water Utility Regulatory Authority (Ewura) Technical Manager (Petrol Section) Shaban Selemani, Tanzania’s roads transport nearly five billion liters of petroleum products per year. Some of the memorable fatal road accidents which resulted to fire bursts and killing a large number of people, include Mporoto hills in Mbeya region in the year 2002 where 40 people died and other more than 100 were seriously injured. This was after the fuel taker overturned, spilled oil while villagers tried to siphon their share. The most recent tragedy happened in Morogoro in last year where 60 died and score more wounded after an overturned fuel tanker exploded. Most of the dead were reportedly trying to collect leaking petrol from the vehicle before it exploded. The death toll from the ghastly incident reached over 100 after just a few days. There are other incidents which were reported but did not receive global attention. In 2014 at Sekenke in Singida Region four people reportedly died after a fuel tanker exploded after it overturned. Four years later a similar incident happened near the same area. All these tragedies happened in non-residential areas and that helped to prevent further crisis. Experts agree that these grisly incidents would have claimed more lives if they occurred in residential areas. Fuel tankers share the same roads with other private and public vehicles. They also stop at the same checkpoints and weighbridge stations. There are always added hazards when sharing roads, checkpoints and weighbridges with tankers hauling highly flammable and dangerous materials. According to Inspector Incharge of Standards at Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Joseph Mwaipaja fuel spillage on roads is dangerous because it is inflammable. There are always food vendors near small towns who would most likely be cooking their food near the road. A Pertophysician at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM)’s Department of Chemical and Mining Engineering, Anthony Maswi says the dangers of imminent fire bursts are possible because of the way fuel is handled in many areas of the country. He says during fuel loading and offloading as well as refueling of vehicles at fuel stations, the risks of fire burst are very high. According to him the dangers of spilled oil on roads does not end with fire burst and death or injuries to people. It has other long-term environmental effects on animals, crops and water sources. A senior lawyer from the traffic police department, Superintendent of Police, Deus Sokoni told the ‘Daily News’ that his department was aware of the importance of education to the general public on how to safeguard themselves with possible fire eruption from oil transporting vehicles. Morogoro Region is among regions chosen for a pilot project for education, he said. “Traffic police in cooperation with other security organs have conducted training to the general public in some regions including Morogoro on upholding humanitarian law, respecting and valuing other people’s lives and therefore, to safeguard themselves then rush to serve life in times of trouble instead of looting belongings of victims of accidents or fetching spilled oil,” said SP Sokoni. Tanzania has various laws and regulations governing what are to be done on the accident and spillage of liquids of the moving vehicles. The one administered by the Tanzania National Road Agency (TANROADS) there is a maximum of 200,000 shillings fines which may be slapped for any vehicle spilling oil and for the one stationed in the road due to mechanical faults, is to be slapped by the bill of the same amount for any extra day after the first twenty four hours since the fault happened. The environmental impact assessment of the Dar es Salaam Rapid transit system developed by the Tanzania National Road Agency (TANROADS) suggests that vehicle/machinery and equipment operations, maintenance and refueling shall be carried out to avoid spillage of fuels and lubricants and ground contamination. All spills and collected petroleum products shall be disposed in accordance with standard environmental procedures/guidelines. Fuel storage and refilling areas shall be located at least 300 metres from all cross drainage structures and important water bodies or as directed by the Engineer . The Land Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA), which controls among other things, the commercial transport, does not have strong regulations as far as trucks transporting dangerous goods and those prone to fire blasts are concerned. LATRA’s transport licensing (goods carrying vehicles) Regulation 2012 , does not differentiate between those goods considered as dangerous such as fuel and other types of goods. The regulations of the Transport Licensing Act (Goods Carrying Vehicles) 2012 directs that the operator of the vehicle must report any incidents of accidents with seven days after their occurrences and that in case of a major mechanical breakdown, that the alternative transportation must be sought to ensure that the goods are not stuck on the way. Both of the regulators seem to have not put in consideration that once involved in an accident, the dangerous good’s fatal effect is of higher impacts and they as well need a very specialized handling, else they become killers to even those turning up to rescue. History shows that not all accidents involving flammable chemicals are due to reckless or careless driving. Some are caused by infrastructure challenges especially in the times of climatic changes, spilling the chemicals and killing innocent people. A memorable incident happened in 2010 in Sange town in DR Congo, near the border with Burundi, DR Congo where at least 230 people were killed when an overturned oil tanker exploded and unleashed a fire ball that tore through homes and cinemas packed with people watching World Cup soccer. Scores more were injured in the accident. Is it possible for firefighters to intervene in cases of highway fire blasts from inflammable materials? Experts say it is almost impossible to control such fires. The Fire and Rescue Force Spokesperson, Joseph Mwasabeja, said that the primary goal is to save lives in times of fire blasts in any accidents but the challenge was that for them to save lives, they must start directing their energy and efforts at extinguishing fire for the next step. Mwasabeja goes on to enlighten that fighting fires and saving lives for those involving highly flammable chemicals was challenging and difficult for them to do. “Once petrol catches fire, it explodes into flames right away, it starts as a biggest fire with negative effects in a second,” he says. He notes the fire and rescue force supervises the law which ensures that every vehicle has fire extinguisher cylinders but it is difficult to deal with fire explosions. He therefore suggests public education, awareness and other precautions.