NATIONAL Electoral Commission (NEC) yesterday reinstated 13 candidates from nine constituencies, while rejecting seven appeals of candidates  who had not been appointed by returning officers. The electoral body also rejected 14 appeals whose motives were to disqualify existing candidates, who were appointed ready for the October 28th General Election. According to a statement issued and signed by the Director of Election yesterday, Dr Wilson Mahera, the 13 candidates who have been reinstated are from SingidaWest (Singida), Madaba (Ruvuma), Ilemela (Mwanza), Namtumbo (Ruvuma), Bagamoyo (Coast Region), Liwale (Lindi), Tunduma (Songwe), Bukene (Geita) and Kigamboni (Dar es Salaam). The seven appeals that were rejected are from eight constituencies  -  SingidaWest (Singida), Bahi (Dodoma), Handeni Rural (Tanga), Madaba (Ruvuma), Singida East (Singida), Ileje (Songwe), Meatu (Simiyu) and Bukene (Tabora). NEC statement reads further that, the rejected 14 appeals whose motives were to disqualify the appointed candidates are from Mwanga (Kilimanjaro), Mafinga (Iringa), Ilala (Dar es Salaam), Manonga (Tabora), Igunga (Tabora) and Kisesa (Simiyu). NEC reached its decision yesterday after reviewing 34 appeals that were filed, making a total of 89 appeals that have been worked on by the commission between Tuesday and yesterday. “This has been done in accordance to Section 40 (6) of the Election Act No 343. Candidates who are disqualified by returning officers are entitled to appeal before the commission for further jurisdiction,” reads part of the statement. On Tuesday, the commission announced that there are over 557 appeals from candidates contesting the decision by the election returning officers to nullify their bid for legislative posts. “NEC  will keep updating more details as it reaches decisions on submitted appeals and that the verdicts are sent to the candidates directly in writing,” the statement further reads. It detailed that the commission considered all the evidence, documents and details from all appellants based on the election laws, rules and procedures.