AS  the  October  general elections  draw  closer, the election campaigns by the  participating political parties are,  correspondingly, also gathering  momentum. The  Presidential candidates in  particular, are busy all over  the  country, wooing    voters   with  a  dazzling  array  of  promises. A  total  of  15  candidates  will  be  on  the Union  Presidential  ballot  paper  for  the  October  28th    general   elections.  As   expected,   the   incumbent   President and CCM  candidate,  Dr.  John  Pombe   Magufuli, who   is  seeking  re-election  for  his  second  and  final  term;   is   proudly  basing  his  campaign  mainly  on  his  sterling,   outstanding   performance  during  his  first  term  in  office,  drawing  attention  particularly  to   the   massive  investments  he  has   successfully  made  in  various   physical   infrastructures.  This can be manifested in  the  construction  of  new  roads  and  bridges,   the  construction  of   historic  mega projects  like  the  Standard  Gauge  Railway,  and  the   new   grand  Nyerere  hydropower  generation  project;    plus  other   investments  in  the  vastly   increased   water  and   health   infrastructure  and  services,   the  purchase  of  a  large  number  of  new  aircraft  for  the  national  airline,  the   vastly  increased  rural  electricity  connection,  the  provision  of  free  Primary  and  junior  Secondary  education  (and  its  associated    investment   in  the  rapid   expansion  of  the   related  school infrastructures)  Also, the   industrialization  of  the  country,  and   fine  tuning   the  economy,  among   many  others;   and  thereafter   asking  the  voters  to   just  allow  him  to  serve  another  term,   so  that  he  can  complete  the   on-going,  unfinished   jobs  and  projects.  And  on   their  part,  the  Opposition  parties’  candidates  are  also  making  their  firm  promises  to  the  voters,  as  generously  reported  in  the  mass  media  on  a  daily  basis.   All   of this   is,  of  course,   very  well ,  and   highly  commendable. Because  that  is   precisely  what  people  normally  expect  to  hear   from  the  aspiring  election  candidates.  However,   in  this  article,  I  have  set  out   to  address  another  matter   which  I  consider  to  be   of  equally   crucial  importance  to  the  voters,   while  exercising    their    democratic  right   of  choosing  their   leaders  at  the  time  of  elections.   This   is   the   all  important  matter  of   ETHICS,   that  I  wish  to  address   in   today’s  article.  “Ethics   is  the  heart  of  leadership” In   all  general  elections,  but  particularly  so  in  the  Presidential  elections,  voters   normally  seek  to  elect   a   “good  leader ”.   In  the  light  of  that,   I  wish,   respectfully,    to   submit   that   “ethics”   is   the  sine  qua  non  of   ‘good  leadership’.  Consequently,   during  this  period  of   the   ‘build  up’   to  this  year’s  October  Presidential   election,   I  consider  it   not  only  useful,  but  also   helpful  to  the  voters,   for  me  to   make  a  little  contribution  towards    the  enhancement  of   the  voters’   knowledge  and  understanding   of  this   crucial  matter   by  providing  a  little  more  elaboration,  especially  regarding  the  meaning  of  the   “ethics”  concept  itself,   plus   its   value  and  significance,    in  order   to  enable  them    to  give   sufficient,   and  appropriate   weight,   to  the  possession   of    the  requisite  “leadership  ethics”   as  an  exceedingly   vital  qualification  for    the  Presidential   candidate  who  deserves   to  be  elected.  Elaboration :  defining   the   word  “ethics”. The  Oxford  Advanced  Learner’s  Dictionary  defines  the  word  “ethics”  as  follows:   “Ethics  is  a  system  of  moral  principles,  or  rules  of  behavior,  that  influence  a  person’s  behavior”.  Other  books  of   authority  on  this  subject,   describe  “ethics”  as  “what  defines  right  from  wrong,  or  good  from  evil,  in  relation  to   the  actions,  volitions,  and  character  traits  of  human  beings”;  and   further  that  “ethics  is  all  pervasive .  .  .   It  is  the  defining  factor  in  the  life  of  an  individual,  as  well  as  in  his  relationship  with  other  persons   who  may  be  affected  by  his  actions,  or  decisions”.  These  definitions   are  very  helpful   in  enabling  the  voters   to  have   a  clearer  understanding,  and  presumably  a  better  appreciation,  of  the  positive  impact  that  is  being  created  in  our  Society  by  President  Magufuli’s   refreshing  efforts  in  transforming  the   “ethics”,  or  the moral  behavior,  of  our  public  officials  through   the   steps  he  has  been  taking  during  his  first  term  in  office,   by   firmly  and    promptly  fighting   impunity,  and  moral   laxity,  amongst  that  influential  group  of  public  officials.  President   Magufuli’s   performance   in  relation  to  ethics. As  early  as  April  and  May,  2016,  when  President  John  Pombe  Magufuli  had  been  in  office  for  only   about    six  months,   his  ‘refreshing’   ethics  stance  had  already  earned  him  plenty  of  goodwill,   even    beyond  Tanzania’s  borders.  This  was  evidenced  by  the  speech  delivered   by   President  Kagame  of  Rwanda,  when  he  was  welcoming  his  guest,  President  John  Pombe  Magufuli,  on  the  occasion  of   President  Magufuli’s    official  visit  to  Rwanda,  in  April,  2016,  in  which    President   Paul  Kagame  said  the  following :-   “Your   presence   on  the  leadership  scene    has  been  totally  refreshing.  Your  words  and  deeds  also   reflect  our  vision;  and  in  particular,  your  robust  stance  against  corruption,  is  particularly  refreshing”.  Similar  remarks  were  made  and  reported  in  THE  CITIZEN  newspaper  of   2nd  May  2016,  by  two  foreign  Diplomatic  envoys  based  in  Dar  es  Salaam;   who  had  said  this:  “Since  assuming  office  in  November  last  year,    President   Magufuli  has  been   taking  robust  steps  to  address  graft.   He  has  already  suspended  a  number  of  senior  officials  over  corruption  and  misuse  of  public  funds,  in  his  determined  crusade  to  address  corruption”.  In  actual fact,  by  that  time  President  Magufuli   had  already  identified  himself  with  three  specific  “ethics – related”  areas   to  which  he  had  given  top  priority.   These  were:   (i)  cutting  unnecessary  and  wasteful  public  expenditure;  (ii)   fighting  impunity  in  the  public  Service;  and  (iii)  effectively  tackling  corruption,  which  had  long  plagued  our  nation.  These were  the  three  most  prominent  areas  in  which  a   serious  lack  of  the  requisite  ‘leadership  ethics’   had  been  demonstrated   among   some  of   our  leaders.     President  Magufuli’s  ‘ robust’   actions    greatly  helped  to  draw  public  attention  to  the  extraordinary  extent   to  which  these  maladies  had  penetrated  our  entire   governance  system.  This  created  the  necessary   awareness   needed    for  everyone  to  fully  support  these  robust  steps,  in  order  to  ensure  that  all  relevant  actors  in  the  governance  system   are  made  to  comply  with  the  stipulated  ‘leadership  code  of  ethics’.  A  tribute  to  the  late  Mwalimu  Julius  Nyerere. Any   discussion   regarding   the   importance   of  ‘ethics’,  and  its  relevance   as  a  vital  qualification  for  leadership,  will  inevitably  evoke  memories  of  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s   teachings   in  respect  thereof.  Hence,   this    quickly  reminds   me  of  the  statement  made  by  Mwalimu  Julius  Nyerere  in  the  Tanganyika  Legislative  Council  in  May  1959  when  he  was  a  member  thereof,   in  which  he  said  the  following:-  “The  guaranteed  safeguard  of  the   peoples’  rights,  or  of  their   freedoms,   and  of  those  other  things  which  they  greatly  value,  is  the  presence   of   what  I  will  call  "the  ethic  of  the  nation"  If  the  people  of  a  given  nation  do  not  have    a  ‘national  ethic’  to  guide  them;     it   really  does  not  matter   what  kind  of  Constitution  you  frame  for  them;  for   such  people  can  still  become  victims  of  tyranny  from  their  unethical   leaders  .  .  .  We   in  Tanganyika,  must  therefore    endeavour    continuously   to  build  a  “ national   ethic”  for  ourselves;   for  it  is   only  the  existence  of   such    ‘national   ethic’  that  will,  for  example,   oblige   even  the  Head  of  State,  whoever  he  may  be,   to  always  pause  before  taking   any  action  that  appears  to  be    controversial,   and  caution  himself  thus:   I  know  that   I  have  the  power  to  do  this  under  the  Constitution;   but  I  will  not  do  it,  because   it  will  be  a  breach  of  the  national  ethic”.  It  is,   presumably,   this   particular commitment   to  build  “a  national  ethic”,   that  must  have  moved  President  Nyerere  to  include  the  “Leadership  code”  in   the  famous   Arusha   Declaration   of  1967.   Thus,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,   President  Magufuli   is  faithfully   following  the  footsteps  of   Mwalimu  Nyerere,  by    quietly   implementing  the  provisions  of  the  (seemingly)  now    abandoned   historic  Arusha   Declaration.  And  this   adds  value  to   President  Magifuli’s    efforts;  for  it  even   negates  Mark  Anthony’s  contention  in  Shakespeare’s  Julius  Caesar,  in  which  he  said   that  “the  evil  that  men  do   lives  after  their  death;   but  the  good  is  often  interred  with  their  bones”.  Thanks  to  President  Magufuli’s   initiatives,  the  “good”  that  Mwalimu  Nyerere  did   regarding  the  need  to  create  “a  national  ethic”  was,   fortunately,    “not   interred  with  his  bones  on  14th  October,  1999;   but  has  lived on,   even  long  after   his  death.  The  Nyerere  Prize  for  Ethics. Having   thus   referred   to   Mwalimu   Nyerere’s  firm   stance  on  the   matter  of  leadership  ethics;     I  should  perhaps   take  this  opportunity,  to  also  make  reference  to  the  existence  of  a  seemingly   little  known  award,  which  is  the  “Nyerere  Prize  for  Ethics”.  Not  long  after  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  death,    a  gathering  of  Representatives   from  different  African  countries  (with  active  support  from  many  other  individuals  and  Organizations),   took  the  significant  step  of  establishing  an  African  Continental  Award,  to be  known  as  the  “Nyerere  Prize  for  Ethics”;   which  they   instituted  in  honour  of  the  late  Mwalimu  Julius  Nyerere   in  recognition  of  his  exemplary  ethical   leadership  of  Tanzania.  The  said   Prize  is  intended  to  be  awarded  to  African   leaders   “who  have  demonstrated  outstanding  ethical  conduct  in  their  leadership  roles”.   I  am  not  aware  of  any  African  leader  who  has   so  far  been  granted  this  Award;   but   it  is  important   for    its  existence   to  be  widely   known  and   propagated.  The   place   of  ethics  in  elections A  general  election  is,  basically, an  activity  in  selecting  persons  who  will become   government  leaders  at  the  different  levels  of  the  country’s  governance   for  the  ensuing  five  year  period.  The  books  of  authority  on  the  general  subject  of  leadership,  define  leadership  as  “the  ability  to  influence,  or  inspire  others,  to  move  in  a  given  direction,  or  to  undertake  some  purposeful  action;  plus  inducing  obedience  by  voluntary  consent,  respect,  loyalty,  and  cooperation”;    and  further  that  “leadership  is,   essentially,   a  kind  of  influence-relationship  based   on  trust,  obligation,  commitment,  and  shared  vision”.  For  purposes  of  emphasis,  I  will  repeat  what  I  stated   at  the  beginning  of  this  article,  namely    that,  as  part  of  the  ‘warming  up’  to  the  forthcoming   October  general  election,    I  am  making   this  presentation    primarily   in  order  to  contribute  to  the  enhancement  of  the  voters’  knowledge  and  understanding  of  this   matter, that  is the  ‘ethics  of  the  individual   candidate’   is  a  vital  qualification  which  needs  to  be  taken  into  consideration   when  deciding  on  which  of  the   15   Presidential   candidates   deserves  to  be  given     victory    at  this  year’s   Presidential    election.  This   is   important   because,   ethics  is  the heart  of  leadership.   Hence,   as  an  additional    qualification,  the   country’s   President   should,  as  a  matter  of  course,  be  deeply  conscious  of   the  role,  and  significance,   of  ethics  as  a  vital  component  of  leadership,  and   be  fully  committed  to  its  observance.  According  to   the  same   books  of  authority  on    leadership,   “some  people  become  leaders  because  they  possess  certain  talents,  charisma,  or  passion;  or  because  of  their  wealth,  job  title,  or  family  name.  Others  become  leaders  because  they  possess  great  minds  or  ideas,  or  they  can  tall  compelling  stories;   and   then  there  are  those  who  stumble  into  leadership  because  of  the   times  they  live  in,  or  the  circumstances  in  which  they  find  themselves”.  It  is  my    humble   submission   that   we,  the  voters  of  Tanzania,  should   always  endeavour    to    elect ,  as  our  top  leaders,  only   those   persons  who,  to  quote  from  the  Nyerere  Prize  for  Ethics:    “have   demonstrated  outstanding    ethical  conduct  in  their  leadership   roles”. (will  continue  next  week) piomsekwa@gmail.com    /  0754767576.