NOW more than ever, Tanzania has turned to be a regional saviour on food supply, or at least the rest of the neighbouring countries are looking forward to lessen the effects borne by Covid-19 by importing enough food from Tanzania. Again thanks to the contrasting approaches in responding to the pandemic that saw all the countries – in exception to Tanzania – employing lockdown as a measure to contain the spread of the virus. Much has been said about that and nothing could be told to put further emphasis on the matter. But there is a very silent yet unusual food demand from countries like Uganda, South Africa, Rwanda and Kenya. These have been the “ring leaders” of campaigning restricted economy all along the pandemic.  In June, Uganda went through a murky water in which the prices of grains went through the roof. Like the proverbial Egypt, Tanzania was the one to supply enough rice while the remaining amount, Uganda had to go as far as Pakistan and India to import the remaining grain. In South Africa, situation is no better. A tone of common beans that used to cost South African Rand 12,000 in the past six months, it is now trading at Rand 24,000 – a 100 per cent increment. Thanks to economic closure that saw even farmers being prohibited from visiting their farms leading to crippling production, an effect which stands to stay longer. In February 2020, prior to Coronavirus eruption, a price of a kilo of onion in Kenya was around 2200 Shillings. It catapulted to over 3000 Shillings in May, again it’s Tanzania who had a role to fill the gap left by inadequate supply from within their borders. Although Tanzania dominance of agricultural trade in the region has existed for long, this global health disaster came to escalate the level of dependency, notwithstanding it stands to blow the benefits to wreck up the flow for eternity. At the moment when demand is heightened, our local supply was disturbed to the maximum too. Above normal rainfall around April and May this year, highly contributed to production disruption. In some areas like Iringa, Kigoma and Tanga, rainfall decimated supply leading to shortages of crops in the local markets. Official production of crops like maize and beans are yet to be out at the moment, but several experts’ projects a deep dive in production by 25 per cent. So, dry beans may drop to 1 million tonnes from last year’s 1.3 million tonnes. Maize production likewise may decline to 4.4 million tonnes from last year’s 5.8 million tonnes. Why all these stories? There is a reasonable fear that our traditional markets may try to ‘think out of the box’ into developing local production capacities, after failing to outsource food from their ancient supplying market. History has it that every time mankind went through difficult moments great innovations ensued.   In early 1900s, the boll weevil crossed over from Mexico to the United States and destroyed cotton plants. This dealt a blow to their economic base and threatened their wellbeing. Their response to that disaster is exactly what forms the basis of this essay. They throw away a long tradition of monoculture and instead decided to diversify by growing multiple varieties of crops like soybeans and peanuts. They went on to use their land to raise cattle, hogs and chickens. Eventually, many farmers became prosperous than in the days when cotton was the sole crop produced. In 1910, the people of Alabama out of joy and gratefulness to the boll weevil decided to erect a monument. The inscription on the monument reads; “in profound appreciation of the boll weevil and what has done to herald prosperity”. At the moment when everyone is struggling to address legacy of the virus, Tanzania was supposed to take over and control the entire supply chain. But given the situation on the ground, this seems to be a tall order, at least for now. The hard truth we are grappling with is that, we haven’t reached our production potential yet. Areas suggested for improvement might be a discussion for another day, but the day our neighbour countries will stop crossing oceans looking for grains that we chiefly produce here, will be a beginning of end of our long tradition of punching below the weight.