DAR ES SALAAM city will undergo a major and historic facelifts over the next five years, should CCM presidential candi- date Dr John Magufuli be re-elected to the top leadership post. The projects, which are expected to transform the city, include the con- struction of Rapid Bus Transit (BRT) ways in almost all major roads, Gerezani Bridge, strengthening infrastructure in flood prone Jangwani Bridge and completion of the Selander Bridge. CCM presidential running mate Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, said yesterday when addressing a public rally at Mwembeyanga grounds in Dar es Salaam that, CCM is committed to ease traffic congestion in the city, and that’s why it had prioritised the execution of the projects in its 2020-2025 Election Manifesto. The incumbent vice-president said that the government would embark on the third phase implementation of the rapid bus transit project which will include Nyerere Uhuru-Bibi Titi-Azikiwe with 23.6 kms while the fourth phase will involve Maktaba-Nyerere -Ali Hassan Mwinyi-Sam Nujoma- Mwenge-Tegeta (25.9 kms). She said the rapid bus in- frastructure would be built on a 26kms Mandela–Segerea-Tabata – Kigogo Road in the fifth phase while the last phase will involve a 9.1kms Morocco-Mwai Kibaki-Old Bagamoyo road. “All these roads will be for rapid transit … the aim is to ease traffic con- gestion in Dar es Salaam … we had completed Morogoro Road and the work is on progress on Kilwa – Kawa- wa roads 19.3kms. The VP said that, the party will also commence the construction of Gerezani Bridge and completion of Sa- lander Bridge. “The government will also strengthen infrastructure in flood prone areas, incuding Jangwani Bridge which is crucial for envi- ronmental conservation,” Ms Samia noted. Meanwhile, Ms Hassan said that the CCM government is also determined to increase budget funding for higher education stu- dents through the Higher Learning Students Loans Board (HLSB) to cover more beneficiaries. She said over the past five years, the government focused on improv- ing public secondary schools, especially community schools, thus improving students’ performance. “Most of students in these schools are from poor families, the government is well prepared to increase the funding to allow the children to have access to higher education,” Ms Hassan said. She, however, noted that the fifth phase government had done a great job over the past five years, calling upon the electorate to vote for the ruling party because it had done a lot for the country’s development. Ms Hassan said that the gov- ernment has done well in railway transport, especially construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR).” We are going to accomplish the construction of Dar es Salaam – Morogoro section -300kms which has been completed by almost 80 per cent. She added that, the second phase construction of a 422 kms section from Morogoro to Makutupola has been completed by 30 per cent, adding that the work will be completed in the next five years if the party is given the chance to lead the nation for the second term. Ms Hassan said that the gov- ernment also expects to construct more factories to provide employment to Tanzanians as the party’s manifesto directs the government to create eight million jobs in formal and informal sectors in the next five year.