NATIONAL basketball women’s team star, Jesca Ngisaise has made history by becoming among the world’s basketball players to fire 100 points mark in one game. The JKT Stars team player made the history at ongoing Dar es Salaam Regional Basketball (RBA) League match in the city recent. Ngisaise emerged top scorer at the game that saw the league leaders JKT Stars humiliate Ukonga Princes 166-7 in a one-sided game. She was very brilliant on that day with her pulsating 105 points, a rare score to be netted by an individual in one game. Following the remarkable achievement, Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) has lauded Ngisaise for reaching the 100-point mark. As revealed by the federation’s president, Phares Magesa, Ngisaise’ score is very brilliant and she deserves standing ovation for the achievement. “We TBF extend our congratulation to Ngisaise of JKT Stars team for her hard works that helped her enter into the history as among players who have attained over 100 points in the basketball world,” he said. Magesa added they are proud to see Ngisaise progressing and that is good for national women team too. Magesa said that Ngisaise has undergone basketball training in Senegal, Kenya and South Africa where she was among the two players who represented Tanzania in Basketball Without Borders (BWB) and NBA Camp in Pretoria, South Africa in 2018. Ngisaise went to South Africa together with Atiki Ally who later joined London Basketball Academy located in Ontario, Canada after securing a scholarship under Juco Advocate scouts who came for a sport’s tour. Ngisaise did even better after she was selected to play in the African youth Ladies team that played an introduction game before the NBA Africa match that saw Team World beat Team Africa 96- 92 at Sun Arena in Pretoria. Magesa was quoted as saying during South African trip: “ Ngisaise did tremendous well, we are optimist that she will go far in this game, lets pray for her and give our support and other upcoming youth like Atiki so that they can realise their dream.” Meanwhile Magesa said that African Basketball Zone V board is scheduled to meet today and will make decisions regarding the fate of this year’s zonal competitions.