ABDUL Nsembo and his wife, Shamimu Mwasha have been found with a case to answer on two charges of trafficking in narcotic drugs filed against them by prosecution before the Corruption and Economic Crime Division of High Court. Judge Elieza Luvanda ruled that the prosecution, through its eight witnesses and six exhibits produced during the trial, established a prima facie case sufficiently requiring the businessman and his wife to give their defence evidence to the charges. Following the court's decision, the two are set to start giving their defence case today. The duo disclosed before the court that they would call three witnesses, including themselves to support their positions exonerating them from the charges. During the trial, the prosecution was represented by a team comprising Senior State Attorneys --Veronica Matikila and Constantine Kakula, while the accused persons are defended by Advocates Juma Nassoro, Josephat Mabula and Hajra Mungula. The exhibits produced to support the prosecution's case include cautioned statements for the couple, arrest warrant, government laboratory inspection report, laboratory sample submission form, vehicle registration information from Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and prescription envelopes of drugs. The term prima facie is used in modern legal English to signify that upon initial examination, sufficient corroborating evidence appears to exist to support a case. In common law jurisdictions, prima facie denotes evidence that, unless rebutted, would be sufficient to prove a particular proposition or fact. In most legal proceedings, one party has a burden of proof, which requires it to present prima facie evidence for all of the essential facts in its case. If it cannot, its claim may be dismissed without any need for a response by other parties. A prima facie case might not stand or fall on its own; if an opposing party introduces other evidence or asserts an affirmative defence it can only be reconciled with a full trial. Sometimes the introduction of prima facie evidence is informally called making a case or building a case. In the trial, Nsembo is charged alongside his wife, Shamim with trafficking in 275.40 grams of Heroin Hydrochloride, which are narcotic drugs on May 1, 2019 at Mbezi Beach area within Kinondoni District in the city. Several witnesses testified in the trial, including Inspector Paschal Daudi, who drew account of how they arrested the suspected drug baron Abdul Nsembo while hiding in the ceiling board at his house in Mbezi area in Dar es Salaam. The witness testified to have gone to the house of Nsembo together with other police officers, notably Inspector Brown  on April 30, 2019 at night to conduct a search after suspecting the businessman of engaging in illegal drug trafficking. Upon reaching the house, they met Shamim, the wife of Nsembo. "We explained to her our intention and asked if Abdul was inside. She replied that he had been absent since he left in the morning, and she didn't know where he was and had no communication with him because they had a family dispute," the witness said. Inspector Daudi told the court that they asked her to allow them inside to start searching the house, but she insisted that she had to search them first, to which they complied, and upon been satisfied that they were not hiding any suspect items, the exercise kicked off  He testified that the search began at the sitting room, all the way to the dining room, store and the entire basement, but found nothing related to drugs, before proceeding upstairs. "While upstairs, we continued our search on the veranda lounge, but there was nothing, then we moved to one room which seemed empty, but we noticed some dirt on the floor. Upon looking upwards, we saw a piece of gypsum hanging with a mark of a human footprint," the witness said. According to him, when they asked Shamim, she claimed that some technicians went up there in the morning to repair water tanks. Inspector Daudi told the court that such response was suspicious, and they decided to satisfy themselves, which prompted Inspector Brown to climb into the ceiling board but saw no evidence of anyone, and they decided to continue searching the bedroom of the couple. "The situation in the room made us more suspicious, because it was obvious that someone else had been in the room apart from the wife, and this is because the bed seemed like it had been occupied by more than one person a few moments before we entered," he narrated. He testified that they decided to go back to the last room and asked Shamim to show them how to get to the water tanks, and when Brown went up again with a searchlight, he found the suspect hiding.