CCM presidential running mate, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan has pledged the construction of 98 district hospitals and improved water supply countrywide, if the ruling party wins the coming 2020 General Election. The incumbent Vice-President said that the CCM government will also accomplish the construction of health centres in every ward, which lack the facility through the government programme of improving primary health services in the country. Ms Hassan made the pledge yesterday when addressing a public rally at Mvomero District in Morogoro Region as part of the ongoing general election campaigns. “If CCM wins the election, it will proceed with the construction of health centres in every ward and embark on the second phase of district council hospitals construction, to ensure all the areas have healthcare facilities,” she said. The vice-president noted that the fifth-phase government has so far constructed more than 60 district hospitals, pledging that if re-elected for the second term, it will construct more facilities in the next five years. According to the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government, a total of 1,784 health facilities countrywide have been constructed from December 2017 to 2019. The fifth-phase government has managed to construct new 1,198 dispensaries, 487 health centres and 99 district hospitals across the country. The Minister of State in President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government Mr Selemani Jafo said recently “With these achievements, the government has managed to set a historic record in comparison to the previous regime of 77 District Hospitals and 115 Health Centres, when the fifth phase administration ascended to power.” Mr Jafo noted that it is the first time; the government has constructed health facilities right in remote areas, where the grassroots’ villagers have been missing them. Meanwhile, Mama Samia said that the government is committed to end water woes countrywide, by ensuring that rural and urban residents have full access to clean and safe water in the next five years. She said that the ruling party will also construct medium-size dams in every district countrywide, to reduce the amount of rain water being lost. Ms Suluhu noted that Mvomero District has attained 68 per cent water access, calling upon the Ministry of Water to work on challenges facing the residents in order to boost supply of the precious liquid. According to the Ministry of Water, access to clean and safe water in rural areas has increased from 47 per cent in 2015 to 70.1 per cent in 2020; and in urban areas from 74 per cent in 2015 to 84 per cent in 2020. While in Manyara Region, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said that this year's CCM election manifesto has pledged to strengthen supervision in the provision of social services including health, water, education so that people can access the services in their localities. He said the manifesto also stressed on national defence and security as an important factor in the development of the country. The Premier noted that, in its first five years, the fifth phase government has performed well in executing the previous election manifesto. He called upon Tanzanians to vote for CCM in the upcoming election so that it can implement  its new manifesto, which is expected to heighten the country’s development.