RULING party (CCM) presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli, said yesterday that over the past five years, his gov- ernment had strived to walk the talk by fulfilling the dreams and vision of pioneer leader Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. Addressing Mara Region’s residents at Mukendo Kati Primary School grounds in Musoma Municipality yesterday, Dr Magu- fuli promised to implement all plans that were initiated or conceived by Mwalimu Nyerere in the next five years. The rally was also graced by the widow of the father of the nation, Mama Maria Nyerere and his two sons - Makongoro and Madaraka. The CCM candidate told the huge crowd of people who turned up at the venue that he had fulfilled some of them. He said Mwalimu Nyerere's ideologies and visions were his main guidance in serv- ing Tanzanians. "I will implement all plans that were initiated or planned by Mwalimu Nyerere, I have already started and I am seeking for another term to complete them,” he said. According to Dr Magufuli, the father of the nation’s dream was to shift the government’s operations to Dodoma and that in his first term, he did so. He said the government had also constructed hospitals, improved water services, connected and supplied electricity to both urban and rural areas as well as offering free education to all Tanzanians. He said out of respect for Mwalimu Nyerere and Mara Region residents at large, his government decided to con- struct Mwalimu Julius Nyerere hospital, which was abandoned for over 20 years. He said the hospital started operations from August and that so far, a total of 31 babies were delivered at the facility. “I was told that one of these children is called Julius; good health services for wananchi is what Mwalimu Nyerere wanted and my government is just fol- lowing his footsteps,” he said. He said the hospital will soon start offering dialysis ser- vices and that soon the aor- tic valve replacement [AVR] machine will be installed at the hospital. “Soon, residents of this region and the neighbours will be getting dialysis at this hos- pital; this means there will be no need to travel to Mwanza or Dar es Salaam; this is what we want, taking crucial services close to the people,” noted the Head of State. President Magufuli added that the government also con-structed seven district hospitals, 8 health centres and 27 dispen- saries. He said that over the past five years, at least 25.1bn/- was spent in the health sector. Dr Magufuli added that his government had already allocated 49bn/- for the expansion of Musoma airport. He said all plans were in place and that the construction work would start soon. “ We have already bought aircraft, we are therefore constructing, renovating and expanding airports, including the one in Musoma; we want Mara residents to take flights from here and not in Mwanza, I want Mama Nyerere to take a flight from this airport,” he noted amid cheers from the audience. On education, the Head of State said over the past five years, his government offered free education from primary to secondary level. He said the government also constructed a number of schools, teachers’ houses, laboratories and other infrastructure across the country. He said in Musoma District, at least 45.6bn/- was spent on education in Mara Region in the past five years. “Tanzania is among a few countries that offer free education in the world, and this has been possible due to good and strong leadership of CCM,” he said. He added that over the past five years, the government con- structed 158 teachers’ houses, 35 secondary schools and 102 primary schools in the region. Also two teachers training col- leges (TTCs) Tarime and Bunda TTCs were renovated. On water projects, the presi- dential candidate said at least 68.4bn/- were allocated and spent on implementing various water projects in the region. “Over 38 big projects were implemented in the region over the past five years; if re-elected, my government will continue to improve water services in this region and other areas across the country, we want people to access safe water,” he noted. President Magufuli also said 411 villages out of 458 villages have been connected with elec- tricity and a total of 105.4bn/- has been spent. On infrastructure, President Magufuli said his government constructed several kilometers of tarmac roads, bridges and renovated vessels in Lake Victoria. He added that in the coming five years, if elected to power, his government would continue with its good job of connected regions, districts and other areas with tarmac roads. “Our manifesto is stating clearly that our plan is to change this country; we have good plans, we are asking you to vote for us so that we can continue building this country,” he said. Earlier, Mama Nyerere and her two sons campaigned for Dr Magufuli, saying Tanzania was lucky to have a visionary leader like him. Mama Maria said Dr Magufuli has served the nation diligently and that Tanzanians should elect him so that he can sustain the good job. “He is a good leader, we must re-elect him so that he can continue with his plans of changing this nation,” she said. Prof Sospeter Muhongo, who is vying for the Musoma Rural legislative post, said Dr Magufuli’s performance had simplified their work of seeking votes from wananchi. He said Dr Magufuli’’s government had improved the country’s economy, created employment opportunities and enhanced people’s welfare. President Magufuli said he was guided by Mwalimu Nyerere’s principles and ideologies in making decisions on the Covid-19 crisis. He said the government decided to reject the imposition of a lockdown and pursue another path.