TAIFA Stars skipper and Aston Villa striker, Mbwana Samatta has launched a digital payment system application dubbed as ‘SamaPay’   that enables its users to gain some points after cash payment. The App which was officially launched yesterday in Dar  es  Salaam  enables  a  customer  who  has downloaded   the  application  from  Google  Store  to make payments  in  various  restaurants, store and   boutiques in  the  country by  discount in different  per cent. Speaking   with press  during  the  launch via video conference from London, UK, Taifa Stars skipper Samatta  disclosed  that  he was  thrilled  to launch  a  digital   firm which  enables   people   to  purchase  products   through   the  Sama Pay  App. Samatta  said  the   App  will enable  people  to transform  their  ways   of  paying  bills  from  hard  currency  to cashless  society and   their  clients will enjoy  paying their bills and enjoy the agreed discounts. He said,  their  clients  will  enjoy  different  offers   as  well  as discounts which  will   range  from   five up to ten per cent discounts and  above   depending   on  the  agreement  and the amount obtained as discount may be turned into points which will later on be used as means of purchasing different items in stores that uses Sama Pay Merchant. “Once the payment is received, merchant can issue reward points to the customer based on the agreed discount with Sama Pay by simply scanning the customer’s QR code directly from their devices” he said. He added, “currently Sama Pay users have to pay cash and get the discount depend on the per cent offered by the merchant example if client buys a  pizza valued at 10,000/- and gets five per cent discount, it means he/she will have to pay 9,500/- and the remaining 500 will be added to his Sama Pay App as the points” SamaPay App is joint venture project between Samatta and a Korean company known as Paymaker with the intention of enabling people to benefit from their payments. The SamaPay APP is accepted in Regency Park Hotel, Menbase, The Rub spa, Terrace Lounge & Restaurant, Atsoko, Scott’s pizza and Mimi beauty salon all located in Dar es Salaam. Samatta invites other merchants to use the service. Meanwhile SamaPay App’s Head of Business Development, Mike Raymond said the service will enable both users, clients and the merchant to benefit, and he feels proud to witness the services taking place in Tanzania and founded by Tanzanians. Also the Samagoal Management and SamaPay Head of Strategy, Emmanuel Massawe urges people to utilise the service and enjoy different benefits while supporting the player. He added merchants who will  use the service will get different benefits like promoting their businesses, increase sales, being closer and well connected with the customers. The points obtained can be used in purchasing other items and may as well be turned to cash depending on the users’ will.