THE ruling CCM presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli, yesterday vowed to continue with the implementation of major power projects that stimulate economic growth and improve social welfare, with the country targeting to reach 5000MW. Dr Magufuli said his government has during the last years focused on the strategies for generating and supplying power in the country and that if elected for the second term, his government will complete all pending projects and generate more power. He was addressing a campaign rally at Gymkhana grounds in Bukoba Municipality. The yesterday’s campaign again attracted a massive crowd with the Kagera Region painted green and yellow. Bukoba residents started to flock the grounds as early as 6:30 am and by 8am, the area was already full in CCM colours. Dr Magufuli told the citizens that his government is currently implementing the 2115MW Julius Nyerere Hydropower project and that upon its completion, Tanzania will be able to sell electricity to neighbouring countries. The idea of constructing the dam was first conceived by founding President Julius Nyerere, but had to be shelved due to financial constraints. President Magufuli's government has, however, been keen to have the project up and running, as it sees this as a solution to the country's power outages. He mentioned several other projects in pipeline, with their expected power production capacity in brackets including Rusumo power project (80MW), Mlongo project (14MW), Kakono waterfalls in Misenyi to (87MW), Kinyerezi II gas power plant (248MW), and Kinyerezi I (325MW). He stated that his government will also use natural gas in Mtwara to produce 300MW in the region, Somanga Fungu gas plant in Lindi (330MW), Kinyerezi III (600MW) and Kinyerezi IV (300MW). According to Dr Magufuli, the completion of all major power generation projects in the list will enable the country to sell electricity to other countries, ensuring reliable operation in the country. He continued; "so let me assure you that we will have electricity reaching over 5000MW. Will be having adequate power for this country and sell the surplus to neighbouring countries, and thus the issue of depending on power from a neighbour will be history, I ask you to trust me." He said the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), establishment and revival of industries as well as connecting both rural and urban areas with electricity are in line with the strengthening of the energy sector. On Monday, the Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani said at least 70MW will be allocated for running SGR, which is expected to bring about economic revolution in Tanzania  and neighbouring countries. Dr Magufuli also vowed to continue addressing water blues across the country, saying a total of 50.7bn/- had been spent in the implementation of 154 major water projects in Kagera region. He reiterated his government’s commitment to improve education delivery in the country, noting that a total of 57bn/- was allocated and used in Kagera Region for free education. The incumbent leader said a total of 1658 new teachers were employed, 1119 classrooms, 289 teachers' houses, 18 laboratories, 27 primary schools and 28 secondary schools were built in the region in the past five years. President Magufuli further stated that the fifth government managed to build four district hospitals, 17 health centres and spent 8.6bn/- on buying and supplying medicines in the region. “We spent a total of 5.9bn/- in improving the health sector in this region, we have also bought 10 ambulances,” he noted. According to Dr Magufuli, his government has implemented a number of infrastructure projects including construction of roads and bridges. “For the past five years, we focused on major projects. When I came here in 2015, I promised a number of projects, today we have improved marine transportation by reviving MV Victoria 'Hapa Kazi Tu', which is currently known as 'Mama Koku',” he said. Dr Magufuli said over 150bn/- was allocated for renovating vessels and that 90bn/- is being used for the construction of a new vessel that is expected to ply in Lake Victoria. “The new ship is designed with the capacity to carry 1200 passengers and 400tonnes of cargo,” he noted. His government, he said, will carry on its industrialization agenda, as he pledged to promote fish, meat and milk processing factories in the area. “We need to revive industries and establish new ones so that we are able to process milk, meat and fish, I remember there was a fish factory here, I am not sure if it is still operating,” he noted. According to the party's manifesto, a total of 149.3bn/- was spent in implementing various development projects in Kagera Region.