IN the upcoming sixty days, Tanzanians will be out to elect its next President and electors have to choose apart from Members of the Parliaments and Councillors, between incumbent President Dr John Pombe Magufuli and 14 other candidates, comprising former Foreign Minister Bernard Membe who, going by what has been reported in the media, expelled from the CCM Party, a party personally he saved for more than 30 years, while aiding sensitive positions in the government. It has been maintained that wrongdoings, contrary to CCM’s institutional coded and ethics had to let him go. Last week, various parties started to launch their party’s national wide campaign on various locations. For CCM, that tossed its campaign on 29th August 2020, eyes and ears were all focused on the country capital Dodoma. For CCM, launching its campaign was argued to be on right foot following NEC confirmed 18 candidates who have circumvented the line unopposed (Daily news 29th August 2020). Of greater importance in nation’s general election history, over years now, is the fact that Tanzania has sustained to uphold the tradition of peaceful elections process and regime change, tradition that emerged in the country, when founder of the nation the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere acknowledged multiparty structure and transferred power to Mr. Ali Hassan Mwinyi and other presidents who followed after their two term ends. Of course, political transitions in Tanzania have always been non-violent as compared to other countries, nonetheless with very minor whinges from the opposition that is expected given difficulties to accept defeat through ballot box. Peaceful changeover has been the case when an incumbent president seeks re-election, although it is common for opposition political parties to entitlement that the ruling party is exploiting state resources for political party gains. Although located in a region that has nationals with history of un-peaceful power transition without upheavals, some to have led to disorder of economic activities and loss of life of innocent people caught in between, Tanzania has been amongst the first countries in East Africa to join the prodemocracy drive that swept the continent in the early 1990s. Since then, the country has led the continent in peaceful transfers of power and the institutionalization of democratic rule. Indeed, since power transfer from Baba wa Taifa Mwalimu Nyerere, Tanzania have voted three two-term election and now in preparation to vote the fourth 2nd term an incumbent government in highly peaceful manner, fair, peaceful and trustworthy election. As National Electoral Commission (NEC) issues strict instructions and cautionary to the media and individuals drawn enchanting into this year’s general election, as  far as Tanzania is concerned, 25th August 2020 in my opinion, marked yet another historical foundation of steering the beginning of a calmly campaigning that would tip to selection of 6th phase government administration. As all parties and their bearers are now ready for a sixty days hard-hitting marathon or sixty days cut-throat battle, this year’s election has enticed more political parties fielding presidential candidates when compared to 2015 general election where only four candidates were involved. Why are there so many candidates for high office in 2020 when equated to previous elections? Trying to came into terms and in an attempt to offer an answer, I am of the view that the rise in the number of presidential candidates in Tanzania towards general election results not from divisions within the party and from easier access to vital campaign resources i.e. money and media that were not present in previous elections, but because candidates may have failed to understand what it entail to be a president. Placing years in perspective, when one relates the late Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere period, to Ali Hassan Mwinyi era, trailed by the late Benjamin William Mkapa, followed by Dr Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete and positioning into context achievements achieved during merely five years of Dr John Pombe Magufuli, things have changed. Changed for  what can be taken to mean candidate ambitions, but whether such get-up-and-go is to save Tanzanian’s nation or to save interest of other nations eying to put in manipulative system remains a subject that need its own thesis in the political line of business. Born during Mwalimu Julius Nyerere administration and survived into today’s political scenery, learnt that running for higher office i.e. president was almost entirely about advancing one’s political career, believing that being a president is more than a show off. In fact in my view, the president is the person who has the highest position in it. President isn’t a position of probationary. Following completion of the National Electoral Commission (NEC) conditions, Dr Magufuli will be running for his second and what he has always stated over and over again as our country’s CCM  two terms tradition prevail, his final five terms under the ruling CCM. Meaning, impatient waiting for candidates, President Magufuli will be preserving his presidency alongside fourteen candidates after the commissions nullified two parties’ aspirants for missing key appointment requirements as per NEC terms and condition of elections Laws Act. No. 343 subsection 30, 32, 33, and 34 and Sect.39 (1) (a-e), 41 (2), and 47(4) (a) of the country’s constitutions of 1977. In the midst of satisfactions of NEC’s terms and conditions, all parties are ready for sixty days of cut-throat campaign scheduled to be free and fair but importantly a time when parties are going to sell to voters what they trust have been accomplished, plans, strategies and where preserving own parties view would like to take Tanzania in the next five years and away from. I am of the view that if eligible voter makes a valuation of what has been done during five years, where the country has come from, and what lies ahead under CCM, certainly, easily one can see CCM’s Chauffeur over and above other political party’s contenders, who in my verdict will have hard-time to persuade electorates to give them a vote. The campaign that JPM ran in 2015, powered by ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’ in the lead up to the Presidential election coupled with many achievement including trust bestowed to those 18 runners who sail unchallenged declared by NEC, and on hand with 2020 CCM-manifesto contained in 303 pages evangelising loaded message . We have done it with great success; We are moving forward together, will, in my honest opinion, without hesitation win the Presidency with the largest margin of victory of any CCM candidate in history. JPM victory is already signalling a cultural and political shift and the way CCM bearers nomination took place which had been near inconceivable years before and starting on right footing with NEC declaration of 18 unopposed, re-election of President Magufuli amid several achievement recorded over the past 5 years is big blessing to forthcoming CCM victory. In developing countries it is common for opposition political parties to claim that the ruling party is misusing state resources for political party gains. Specifically, in Africa, opposition parties have always whinged that they are effectively competing against the state when they participate in elections. Under NEC free and fair election setting is everybody’s wish nationally, regionally and internationally and while I have assurance with CCM on this trail to win with large majority, I would urge all political parties into this year’s general election no need because entering is option but accepting defeat is mandatory. The behaviour of receiving fair defeat in the previous elections and prevalent brand of CCM achievements and accomplishment under Dr JPM as well as CCM supporters, after the election, in my opinion given we are building one strong nation will further solidify Tanzania’s credentials as a country determined to strengthen its democratic institutions and enhance its ability to live by the rule of law. As other African countries prepare for presidential elections, they can learn a lot from Tanzania. Kenyans or Ugandans for example, can take an experience from Tanzania on how to select party nominees transparently, but outstandingly behave in the event opposition lose in an election. Learning to accept defeat and allowing a winner to move the country forward is everybody wishes. For other African political elites, from Cairo to Pretoria and from Nairobi to Dakar, the lesson is clear: Tanzanian leaders’ honesty to democratic institutions and leading by working hard to implement what manifestos pledges is a more effective way to help develop a nation and to fulfil and meet the will of people, than political opportunism, to ensure peace and security, as well as political and economic development takes place for the benefit of all. Notwithstanding the nature and quality of electoral institution process, political parties, if they won’t learn to discontinue evangelizing issues that may sound to add nothing, but instead crafting terror and conflict or cause disunity, instead of presenting pertinent development issues to spell out during the race, stop evangelising selfishness, instead national interest, stop evangelizing negative view on government achievement and work instead of attainment made and fail to institute governance with clear party policy, views clearly lashed out by the renowned economist-turned politician Prof. Ibrahim Lipumba, (Daily news 29/08/2020 front page) a good number of political parties will mathematically keep on attracting weakness, be fragmented, disorganised and incapable to carry out lawfully recognized roles of political counterweight as true opposition parties.