IN the next couple of days, the United Nations will be 75-years-old. These years have long been making a challenging yet a successful journey for the organization. Seventy five years on, no one can ignore UN’s brevity in maintaining international peace and security, protecting human rights, delivering humanitarian aid, promoting sustainable development and upholding international law. Congratulations. As I follow up this crucial moment on the life and duty of the UN, I have realised that the content and quality of the messages and counsel regarding the commemoration event especially those at the high-level meetings, more importantly during the general debate of the seventy-fifth session, speaks volumes as far as UN and its future is concerned. Well, I know there is still much to hear as commemoration continues, here I mean more advocacy messages at the summit on biodiversity, the Fourth World Conference on Women, and the high-level plenary meeting to commemorate and promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons. But today I would like to reflect on President Xi Jinping’s remarks from his speeches made in Beijing, when he was attending the event via a video link. Why am I picking, among many, Xi’s remarks? Well, Xi’s remarks - justice, rule of law, cooperation, and real actions are crosscutting, interconnected and carry almost equal weight when it comes to addressing challenges facing the UN and the need to safeguard its successes I see Xi’s comments as applicable, related and suitable for the world to remember that as the commemoration continues, the occasion shall be most rewarding to the organization, in two ways; first because it is time to celebrate its achievements as UN charges ahead in playing a crucial role of making a global human society more civil, more peaceful and secure compared to the time of its origin at the 2nd World War. Secondly it is high time for the organization to use the remembrance occasion to remind member states that, at large, its responsibility towards humanity remains very high. Indeed very demanding when looked at the challenges the organization has been and still facing. Here I recall UN administrative and financial-resources challenges, peace and security issues - especially those we hear and see today like conflict between states, violence and massive human rights violations within different states, and terrorism threats from organized crime. On a similar note, we should not forget UN non-conventional and new challenges, especially those like the impacts of climate change which are global in scope and unprecedented in scale. We know also other common challenges on record, those of the world population growth, highest levels of displacement on record, increased number of stateless people, or a massive number of forced from home by conflict and persecution. Similarly, refugees and population ageing are new and real fields of which UN has to work on beyond the 75th anniversary. In my interpretation, Xi Jinping’s concern is based on the sheer need for building democratic society, economic development of people living in acute poverty, and above all, preserving the earth’s ecosystem. That is why for him, the UN needs to stand for justice, rule of law, cooperation, and real action. President Jinping knows the concern and is aware of the fact that it is important to consider the stipulated values because if Member States are not doing what is required of them, the UN will continue, as it has been noted in the past, to be overburdened by the many new tasks, among them its role multilateralism in the modern new world order. No wonder why even at 75th anniversary, the call for the UN to redefine its priorities, say on issues like responding to refugee flows, preserving human rights, and building sustainable development to mention a few, has not stopped. So, it was good to hear from Xi himself, on behalf of China, a country whose economic importance continues to grow and with an increased attention to the structure and health of the economy reiterating that he himself and his country remains committed to a just world order. Glad also, he continues to reassure the world that China is seeking a more equitable distribution of opportunities for the world. Well, this is good because without justice it would be difficult to promote a community with a shared future for mankind, a key symbol of the future we all want. Unfortunately space does not allow expounding Xi’s points. But let me take the value of cooperation - that action or process of working together to the same end, as an example of Xi’s important remark. I think President Jinping knows well of the gap in the form of actions of some member states not being helpful by doing what is wanted or asked for by the UN. Put simply he is probably concerned by leaders’ differences which may, beyond 75th UN anniversary, hinder the spirit of acting together for common, mutual, or some underlying benefit. In my view, the current signs of some leaders working in competition for selfish benefit will not help the world,this makes Xi unhappy. And he is right because in the long history of humankind those who learned to collaborate and improvise most effectively have prevailed, said Charles Robert Darwin (1809 - 1882) an English naturalist, geologist and biologist. In other words, President Jinping is hoping that everyone use the words of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749-1832), a German writer and statesman, will sweep in front of his own door and by doing so the whole world will be clean. Like Xi, Thomas Paine (1737-1809) an English-born American political activist and philosopher could best have advised the UN that, to use his words of wisdom, it is not in numbers but in unity that humanity great strength lies. Once again I want to congratulate the UN for what it has achieved over the last 75 years. The achievements are many and diverse - from maintaining world peace, to developing good relations between countries, promoting cooperation in solving the world’s problems, encouraging a respect for human rights and of recent years in its increased commitment to promoting economic and social progress and development. Together with my words of congratulations, I want to highlight that the UN’s task asked is still massive. As it advances security, development and human rights, there is still much to be done. It will not be easy to achieve all that it desires, but there are, among so many ways many have proposed, I think President Xi has a simple and well articulated proposal as he insists; UN should stand firm for justice, uphold the rule of law, promote cooperation, and focus on real action. By doing so, the future the world wants, the United Nations the world needs shall be made a reality now when all are reaffirming their collective commitment to multilateralism, confronting COVID-19 through effective multilateral action beyond the 75th anniversary. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti- Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997