THE ruling CCM yesterday released the list of 50 candidates who will vie for the Zanzibar House of Representatives seats in the forthcoming General Election, boasting that the fronted flag-bearers match the Isles economic development agenda for the next five years. The party's Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Mr Humphrey Polepole told reporters that the ‘winning team’ has been nominated based on their ability to cope with the speed of economic development, that will be spearheaded by the Presidential aspirant, Dr Hussein Mwinyi. “They are the flag-bearers, whom we believe if elected, will tap the economic potentials in Zanzibar and turn them into investment opportunities for the vast socio-economic development on the Isles,” said Polepole. The selection has accommodated all cadres according to Mr Polepole, who said the nominated candidates are committed to the party’s cause and well versed on the challenges and potentials on the Isles, and thus together they are capable of turning Zanzibar into a prosperous Island both socially and economically. He said having closely monitored the political situation in Zanzibar, they’re convinced the CCM is on the right track in its development agenda, insisting socio-economic growth is of paramount importance. “Zanzibar development agenda is our key focus and we bank on this team. We are very sure that they will match and run concurrently with Mainland’s development race,” he insisted. Mr Polepole said the candidates are of a caliber that will fast track Zanzibar’s economic growth and safeguard Zanzibar development interests inside and outside the House of Representatives. With political parties currently going across the country wooing voters, the CCM Ideology and Publicity Secretary promised continued civilized campaigns, instead of treading insults as it is the case with some politicians. He said CCM candidates were picked on merits and that the party expects them to record good performance during the campaign and after election. He named the candidates and their constituencies in brackets as Zawadi Amour Nassoro (Konde), Mr Shamata Shaame Khamis (Micheweni), Said Saleh Salim (Tumbe),Tumu Mwalim Masoud (Wingwi), Mariam Dhai Juma (Gando), Makame Said Juma (Kojani), Othman Ali Khamis (Mtambwe), Khamis Dadi Khamis (Pandani), Harous Said Suleiman (Wete), Nadir Abdulatif Yusuph (Chahani), Juma Makungu Juma (Kijini). Others are Abdallah Abbas Wadi (Nungwi), Sulubu Kidongo Amour (Mkwajuni), Haji Omar Kheri (Tumbatu), Mtumwa Yusuph (Bumbwini), Ali Salum Mohamed (Donge), Asha Abdallah Mussa (Mahonda), Shaibu Hassan Kadiara (Chakechake), Suleiman Masoud Makame (Chonga), Masoud Ali Mohamed (Ole). The list also have Bakari Ahmad Bakari (Wawi), Suleiman Makame Ally (Ziwani), Bahati Khamis Kombo (Chambani), Mussa Foum Mussa (Kiwani), Abdallah Hussein Kombo (Mkoani), Mohamed Mganza Jecha (Mkoani),  Issa Haji Ussi (Chwaka), Simai Mohamed Said (Tunguu), Haji Shaaban Waziri (Uzini), Haroun Ali Suleiman (Makunduchi), Dr Sudi Dou Hassan (Paje), Mwanaasha Hamis Juma (Dimani). Others are Yusuph Hassan Idd (Fuoni), Suleiman Khamis Suleiman (Kiembesamaki), Ameir Abdallah Ameir (Mwanakwerekwe), Ally Suleiman Ameir (Pangawe), Mudrick Ramadhani Soradi (Bububu), Machano Othuman Said (Mfenesini), Hussein Ibrahim Makungu (Mtoni), and Mihayo Juma N’hunga (Mwele). The list also includes Hassan Hamis Hafidhi (Welezo), Rukia Omari Mapuli (Amani), Miraj Khamis Mussa (Chumbuni), Jamal Kassim Ali (Magomeni), Shabani Ali Othuman (Mpendae), Hamza Hassan Juma (Shaurimoyo), Ali Abdulgulam Hussein (Jang'ombe), Nasoro Salum Ali (Kikwajuni), Yahaya Rashid Abdullah (Kwahani), Muhammed Ahmada Salum (Malindi). Special Seats are Shadiz Mohamed Suleimani, Zuhura Mgeni Othumani and Zainabu Omari Amiri (South Pemba), Salma Mussa Bilal, Rahma Kassim Ally and Arafa Ally Yusufu (South Unguja), Fatma Ramadhani Mandoba, Mwanaidi Kassim Mussa and  Fatma Ally Ameir (Urban West). Others are Saada Ramadhani Mwendwa, Mgeni Hassan Juma and Salma Abdi Ibade, Mwantatu Mbaraka Hamisi and Zainab Abdallah Salum, Riziki Pembe Juma, Salha Mohamed Mwinjuma, Udhaima Mbaraka Tahir and  Sabiha Filifili Tani.