THE Court of Appeal has acquitted a man, Ally Salim, who was serving a 20-year-jail term for unlawful entry into Mkomazi National Park and for being in possession of weapons and six horns of lesser kudu, which are government trophies. Justices Shaban Lila, Barke Sahel and Ignas Kitusi ruled in favour of Salim, alias Nyuku, the appellant, after declaring the proceedings of the trial court and the first appellate court a nullity when determining his appeal he had lodged against the findings of the High Court. "We order for immediate release of the appellant, Ally Salim, alias Nyuku, from custody unless otherwise held for other lawful reasons," they declared in their judgement. The justices noted that the appellant stood charged in the District Court of Lushoto with eight counts comprising non-economic and economic offences, contrary to the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act, among other provisions. They pointed out that under Section 26 of the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act, the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP)  had to be given first before the commencement of prosecution and, or trial of any case involving an economic offence. During hearing of the appeal, the prosecution had conceded that the offences which the appellant was charged with were neither consented to by the DPP nor authorised by him to be tried by the subordinate court. It was the view of the prosecution also that a certificate issued by Senior State Attorney in Charge under Section 12(3) of the Economic Act did not confer jurisdiction in a subordinate court to try both economic and noneconomic offences. As a result, the prosecution invited the court to declare the proceedings of the trial court and of the first appellate court a nullity in terms of the Court's revisional powers enshrined under Section 4(2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act and quash the conviction and set aside the sentences against the appellant. In their judgment delivered in Tanga Registry recently, the justices of the Court of Appeal had this to say, "We are in full agreement with (the prosecution) that the economic offences which the appellant stood charged with were not consented to by the DPP." Consequently, they said, the trial of the appellant commenced without the sanction of the DPP, which they said was contrary to Section 26 of the Act. "The trial court lacked jurisdiction to try the case. For that reason, we declare the proceedings of the trial court and the first appellate court a nullity," they said. The justices concluded by declaring, "We invoke the Court's revisional powers under Section 4(2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act and nullify all the proceedings in the two courts below, quash the conviction and set aside the sentences and orders made therein." On September 21, 2015 in the afternoon, a game guard at Mkomazi National Park, whilst on patrol with his co-workers saw the footsteps of a human being. They followed up and found the man in his camp. He was found with a knife, a bush knife, a leg of a giraffe, warthog meat and 50 wire snares for trapping animals. They asked him if he had any permit to enter in the National Park and hunt, but they found that he did not have one. They thus arrested him and took him to Lushoto Police Station for further legal action. On the next day, they went to his house at Mbuyuni Village together with one policeman to search. The sub-village leader in the area was summoned to witness the search. Man was searched and found with one horn, six horns of lesser kudu and three wires. After the search, a search warrant was filled and signed by witnesses. The appellant was then taken back to Lushoto Police Station where he was interrogated. In his defence evidence during trial, the appellant strongly denied any involvement in the commission of the alleged offences. He said, at the time of his arrest he was at a village neighbouring the National Park, at Ngomei Village for the work of digging water dams. He maintained that the government trophy and weapons were planted to him by the game officers after failing to name poachers.