ACT – Wazalendo pledges to formalise businesses to enable people get access to finance, business development services and technologies if elected to power in the October 28 General Election. In its manifesto released on August 2020, the party assures the people that if it is elected, it will also eliminate bureaucracy in setting up and running a business in the country, including the freedom to buy and sell any legitimate goods in and out of the country without any restrictions. The party aims at identifying and creating a favorable policy environment for e-commerce to support processes in the areas of sales as well as procurement through electronic communication nets. Moreover, the party’s government will create a special fund to provide sponsorship and loans for innovative start-ups, especially those that use technology and are owned by youth and women. According to the document, it will also protect local traders and producers, and create an environment for them to collaborate and compete with traders as well as goods from outside Tanzania. “It will use diplomacy and strategic partnership with other countries to expand the export market or trade for locally produced goods. To achieve this goal, the government will use its embassies around the world to ensure that Tanzanians, especially youth and women, participate fully and extensively in various international trade and art exhibitions,” reads part of the document. It further emphasized that the ACT-Wazalendo government will focus on making most of embassies as catalysts for finding and facilitating access to business opportunities with foreign trade partners, strengthen trade balance, increase foreign exchange in the country and promote Tanzania as a producer of various products. The 62-page document further highlighted the party’s plan to encourage and empower local investors in manufacturing and production along with ownership of infrastructure such as electricity, water, aircraft, gas and ferries through the Private Sector and Public, Private Partnerships (PPP). It will also sell to Tanzanians up to 51 per cent shares of major state-owned companies so that locals can directly own their economy and increase efficiency, besides transparency of these organisations through capital markets, according to the party’s 2020-2025 election manifesto. The manifesto furthermore states that the party will review all tax systems and ensure a friendly tax system for Tanzanians, including proper taxes levied at the right time to encourage voluntary taxation, and more importantly to ensure businesses grow and thrive. ACT-Wazalendo has also outlined its rural electrification plan in line with reducing electricity costs and connecting all regions and districts to the national grid. It will also reduce the cost of electricity for social use, such as the cost of pumping water, to reduce the cost for community members. The party also vows to restore the Natural Gas Project (LNG Plant) by speeding up negotiations with investors and removing all obstacles to enable Tanzania become a major gas producer in Africa, increase employment from industries and services and increase foreign exchange earnings from exports of gas.