TWENTY foreign players and officials were granted work permits ahead of the Premier League kick off this Sunday in various venues. Defending champions, Simba whose players were cleared by late August, have seven players with work permits, while Young Africans have eight including the Head Coach Zlatko Krmpot, Azam have four and Namungo FC have one player from Ghana. While the process is going on, all clubs that have hired foreign players and coaches are reminded to submit lists of their players together with their working permits from the immigration department or else they won’t serve their clubs. A press statement released and signed by Tanzania Football Federation Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo noted that; In pursuant to section 30 (1) and (2) of the Immigration Act Chapter 54, as it reads in conjunction with section 9 (1) of the non-citizens (employment regulation) Act, identify that any foreigner working in the country must have a work permit from the Labour Commissioner and residence permit from the Immigration Department. Until yesterday the Prime Minister’s Office, Labour, Youth, Employment and Persons with Disability granted the work permit to all the four clubs. On August 28th this year seven Simba players were granted work permits including Bernard Morrison, who switch from Young Africans to Simba sparked a big debate. Others are Meddie Kagere, Clatous Chama, Kope Mutshimba Mugalu, Joash Onyango Achieng, Larry Bwalya and Serge Pascal Wawa. On the same date, Namungo’s Ghanaian import Stephen Kwame Sey received his work permit. Azam Football Club spokesman Zakaria Thabit confirmed that their club has completed to process all required permits of their players and coaches. Where according to the ministry list, four Azam players were granted work permits on August 31st. They are; Alain Thierry Akono, Prince Mpumelelo Dube, Ally Niyonzima and Nico Wadada Wakiro. Azam on their side have noted that they are confident with the squad and the coach is happy with the form of his player, revealing that he is working hard to build a connection between his players to deliver the best quality they are looking forward to deliver. “He has given all the players chance to play friendly matches where he has been able to notice few things that he had to strengthen before the league resumes in 2020/21 season.” “There have been morale in our squad and the competition between has been high. Every player has been energetic; this gives us a picture of the quality of our squad as the season begins in the next few days.” Stressing that the team’s goal is to achieve what was achieved in 2014 as they won the league title without losing any game. Earlier before the permit was granted to Young African Sports Club the Communication Officer Hassan Bumbuli expected that the whole process would be finalised before the Sunday game. “We applied for permits for our players and a coach, filled out forms, paid and received the payment receipts, but we are still waiting for the permits so as to submit them to relevant authorities.” “We are sure to complete the process earlier before our Sunday’s game so that all players can take part in the Sunday game.” It was on Thursday September 3rd this year when eight and a coach received their permits. The players are Youcuba Songne, Vladimir Niyonkuru, Rossien Kisinda Tuisila, Serge Tomombe Mukoko, Michael Sarpong and Carlos Guimaraes Do Carmo. Among the club officials who received the permit include; the club head coach Zlatko Krmpotic and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Hammilion Senzo Mazingisa.