FAMOUS runner Alphonce Simbu has added another feather to his cap after being selected by Athletics Tanzania (AT) as one of the eight appointees to sit on the AT’s Athlete Commission. Simbu, winner of the 14th edition of the Mumbai Marathon on January 15th 2017, was picked during the election held in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. The election was held after the National Athletic championship. According to AT Information and Communications Officer, Tullo Chambo, the commission’s chairman post went to Benjamin Kurwa after scooping 46 out of 131 votes. Kurwa defeated his closer challenger and the outgoing chairman, Amani Nora, who collected 33 votes, while other candidates for the post Erick Magesa and Christian Yahhi got 32 and 20 votes respectively. The Secretary position went to Andrew Rhobi, who bagged 86 votes out of 128 votes, outshining the outgoing Secretary John Mwanlu, who bagged 26 votes followed by Sanlaus Tseama, who got 13 votes. Simbu was among the six candidates who were elected members of the commission the positions which were vied for by nine candidates. Other elected members are Wambura Abubakar, Elias Daniel, Mariam Abubakar, Angelina Tsere and Grace Jackson. Simbu competed for Tanzania at the 2016 Summer Olympics in the men’s marathon, finishing fifth with a time of 2:11.15. He was the flag bearer for Tanzania during the closing ceremony. In 2019, he competed in the men’s marathon at the 2019 World Athletics Championships held in Doha, Qatar. He finished in 16th place. Meanwhile, Chambo unveiled that in the just ended National Athletic championship Coast region was accredited the overall winner of this year’s competition. They were crowned the title after beating other 28 regions. The champion’s squad was coached by the former national team coach, who won two medals at the Moscow Olympic Games in Russia Ron Davis. They deserved the overall victory, after doing well in majority sports. According to the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) Secretary-General, Filbert Bayi the region won six gold, nine silver and bronze medals followed by Arusha, who won five gold medals, seven silver and four gold medals. The 2015 champions, South Unguja won bronze after winning three gold medals. Urban West took the fourth place after winning two gold medals, one silver and five bronze. Temeke District Commissioner, Godwin Gondwe congratulated the athletes for battling hard in the competition, stressing that athletics has done better internationally than any other sport in the country. He further noted that athletes should make sure they train more often and if they do so, they will fetch more medals for the country. The Assistant Director of Sports Development, Alex Mkenyenge urged regional leaders to permit players to participate in national competitions.