LOOKING to alleviate ongoing congestion at regional border crossing points, the East Africa Community has come up with a mobile phone application that will enable the issuance of the EAC Covid-19 digital certificates. The digital certificates will be mutually recognised by partner states, hence eliminating the need for multiple testing which has fuelled border standoffs between regional countries. The EAC Secretariat and its member states held the virtual roll out event yesterday to mark the technical completion and development of the Regional Electronic Cargo and Driver Tracking System (RECDTS). The roll out was witnessed by the Chair of the EAC Council of Ministers, Hon Prof Nshuti Manasseh,  Ministers of Health from Kenya and Uganda as well as the EU Ambassador to Kenya,  Simon Mordue. RECDTS provides a surveillance system to monitor long distance truckers' crew health and enables contact tracing. It allows partner states to electronically share truck drivers' Covid-19 test results; therefore, minimizing the need for multiple Covid-19 tests in a single trip. The reliance on manual certificates and delayed test results at the borders has been reported as one of the main reasons of long delays at border points, such as those witnessed in Busia, Malaba, Nimule and Elegu. Some of the delays have caused tail backs of trucks measuring tens of kilometres in some cases. The development of the app with the funding from European Union, Global Affairs Canada, Danida, Finland, Netherlands and United Kingdom through TradeMark East Africa was in accordance with the directive given by the 1st Joint Ministerial meeting of EAC Ministers responsible for Health and EAC Affairs. Additionally, RECDTS will contribute to protecting lives, promoting safe trade and especially continuous flow of trade, support health related protocols and facilitate safe trade. RECDTS will be in use in all partner states and will eventually be extended to EAC neighbouring countries, particularly Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The State Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Republic of Rwanda, Professor Manasseh said the effective implementation of RECDTS is critical for trade facilitation in the region as well as the recovery of regional economies. "In this regard, I appeal to all stakeholders to look at the positive side of things and support the implementation of the system," said the minister. Speaking at the roll out event, Ambassador Mordue said that a common approach to tackling the threat of Coronavirus to the EAC's economy is paramount. The RECDTS platform is an example of the solution, as it enables several ministries of health in the region to work together in stemming the spread of the virus across borders. The EAC Deputy Secretary General in-charge of Productive and Social Sector, Mr Christophe Bazivamo commended the progress in the development of the RECDTS. "Today's roll out proves that coordinated action at the regional and even continental level is possible, especially as we start implementation of the Africa Continental Free Trade area. This kind of coordination is evidence that we can regulate flow of trade, safeguard livelihoods and achieve competition and quality," he said. The Chief Executive Officer of TMEA, Mr Frank Matsaert said that the current pandemic has in many ways revealed how crucial the facilitation of trade is in times of crisis. It shows us that trade must become more fluid so that producers are able to access markets. The task of ensuring that imported goods reach consumers lies in the hands of truck drivers; and as the coronavirus spread in the region the transit corridors were identified as conduits for the spread of infections. In efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19, the health authorities developed protocols requiring truck drivers to be tested. RECDTS will resolve some of the challenges that were being experienced in execution of health protocols including: Multiple testing of truck drivers at border crossing as there lacked a framework of mutual recognition; Documentary fraud; where truck drivers would forge national certificates and use them to cross borders. Conflicting test results   happened when the same driver tested in one country with negative results, would be declared positive after being tested again in another country. The system is expected to be in use in all the EAC partner states – Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda - and extended to EAC neighbouring countries particularly the Democratic Republic of Congo.