As she tried to change her position in the rickety bed, she stifled a cry as she could feel the pain shooting through her body like hot wires passing through her veins. She could still hear the voice of her angry husband as he punched and kicked her the previous night, where she screamed until her voice became hoarse, and pleas from irate neighbours did not reduce the rain of blows. One of the concerned neighbours, a motherly woman approaching her 60s was forced to intervene and placed between her and her furious husband, and it was a miracle that she finally managed to cool him down. “This woman is trying to manipulate me in this house, I have to remind her that her place in the home, taking care of her family, instead of running around with men in the name of politics,” he told the elderly woman when he finally calmed down. Josephine Michael (not her real name) has always wanted to join politics, believing that she had an opportunity of becoming the voice of millions of women in the country who lack proper representation in the political setting, but it is unfortunate that her husband did not share her enthusiasm. As the country braces for the general elections later this year, it is interesting to note that the level of female participation and representation in Tanzanian politics are low, which is caused by several factors, which includes a sexist and patronage-based political culture, combined with gendered economic and household inequalities. This forced the Tanzania Media Women association (TAMWA), Women in Law and Development in Africa (WiLDAF) and Global Peace Foundation (GPF) to organise several debates to look into challenges facing women during election periods. It is unfortunate that so far only two women have declared their interest in running for the presidency, with five more women going in as running mates. “Women who vie for political positions in the country are usually faced with several challenges during campaigns and while conducting their political duties, which acts as a catalyst of demoralising them,” says Rose Ruben, the TAMWA Director. She says that if the country yearns for a peaceful and democratic elections, it is important for the National Election Committee (NEC) and security organs to ban and dish out severe punishment to politicians who use abusive language against women during the campaigns. She adds that women everywhere are breaking the glass ceiling in politics but their voices go unheard and their contributions are too often sidelined. “In many places women are still as incapable of taking on responsibility in what are perceived as male-oriented areas, such as finance, energy, economic development, foreign affairs and defense, among other issues,” she says. Global surveys of female politicians confirm how pervasive violence, and the threat of violence, are in the lives of female politicians. A 2016 report found that more than 44 percent of elected female representatives have been threatened in office, including threats of death, rape, beatings, or abductions. The violence and intimidation that women face while running for office, as well as the threats they receive after being elected, also affect not only the women themselves but their polities. During the debates, it was also discovered that women vying for political office are also forced to bribe their way through the nomination process, which means that most women fail at this stage because they are not financially stable. Several studies looking at the correlation between levels of corruption and women’s representation in politics found that corruption tends to be lower in countries with a greater share of women occupying political positions, that is why some policymakers have concluded that promoting women’s participation in the labour force as well as in political and public life is likely to reduce corruption. “Supporting women’s participation in public life should therefore be pursued and promoted as an essential right and not as an anti-corruption imperative or strategy. This is all the more important as women have fewer opportunities to participate in public life and influence policy-making; they largely rely on policies designed by men to address their specific needs,” says Anna Kulaya, the WiLDAF director. She says that irrespective of whether women are more or less corrupt than men, they experience corruption in different ways than men, due to power imbalances and to the difference in participation in public versus domestic life. She adds that women’s perceived or real inability to pay bribes can exclude them from securing even a basic standard of living or result in requests for other forms of payments such as through sexual extortion or exploitation. Ms Kulaya further says that apart from the corruption aspect, there are five prominent features of political barriers, which include the prevalence of the ‘masculine model’ of political life and of elected government bodies, lack of party support, such as limited financial support for women candidates, limited access to political networks, and the more stringent standards and qualifications applied to women. Others she says include lack of sustained contact and cooperation with other public organisations such as trade (labour) unions and women’s groups, lack of access to well-developed education and training systems for women’s leadership in general, and for orienting young women towards political life, and finally the nature of the electoral system, which may or may not be favorable to women candidates.