SIMBA Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck maintained that the reason not to feature Meddie Kagere frequently in his starting XI is between him and the striker not for the outsiders to know. The defending champions have intensified their preparations prior to their next league match against Biashara United to be staged tomorrow at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. But, briefing members of the media yesterday after a morning training session at Mo Simba Arena in the city, when quizzed why the last season's top goal scorer is having limited playing time, Vandenbroeck said it is between him and Kagere. "That is something I will discuss with him and not you. I should not give explanations to the outsiders because that is between me and the player. Everything that is between me and the player is not for the media. "You can ask me that question one hundred times but hundred times I will answer that I will not discuss it with the outsiders," said the Belgian trainer who has won one Community Shield trophy, one Premier League title and one Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) silverware with the Msimbazi Street giants. Shading more light on the same subject, Vandenbroeck lamented that even striker Gonzalo Higuain who scored 32 goals in Italy is not playing at his current club (Chelsea). "We take decisions for the best of the team and not what the outsiders are expecting. People out there have got their expectations since others want us to play 4:4:2 but expectations are the things we need to deal with not to care about," he noted. About tomorrow's match, the coach said playing at home will be an advantage for them saying the venue gives them a chance to play their tactical style of football. "We are training on ball movement, speed, ball circulation and movement of players as well as on how to break the lines of opponents," he said. Simba will be searching their second league win of the season against a team which has won both of their opening matches. The Reds won 2-1 against Ihefu FC on their inaugural match of the season at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya before recording a 1-1 draw versus Mtibwa Sugar at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro.