WORLD Vision Tanzania has donated various items worth over 25m/- to 14 primary and secondary schools in Ikungi and Manyoni districts that are involved in a programme dubbed, “Reproductive Health for Adolescents." The donation included TV sets, sanitary pads, pair of jerseys for football and netball players, as well as balls for both sports. Handing over the donation at a short ceremony here, ENRICH Project Manager, Ms Mwivano Malimbwi said the organization had taken the initiative in order to improve the health of the youth, including reproductive health. “In many communities in the country, the issue of gender and reproductive health for young people is not discussed openly. This situation is causing controversy in the community, especially among the youth as they receive incorrect information from various unreliable sources,” she said adding; That is why we are concerned with them because we realize young people are a resource of manpower and a source of wealth in production, and thus building the economy of the present and the future. They need to improve their health status. We hope sports will also contribute towards that end.” She listed some of the rights for the young people as the right to better reproductive health, freedom to make sexual decisions, access to education, accurate information on sexual and reproductive health, free from sexual abuse and better affordable reproductive health that meets the individual needs. According to the Manager, so far the programme has already benefited a total of 13 2 children in Singida and Shinyanga regions, where the project is being implemented. Regional Medical Officer, Dr Victorina Ludovick commended World Vision for engaging themselves in youth issues, especially adolescents, saying they are on the right track because even the Ministry of Health Policies and Guidelines encourage the improvement of health for young people. Regional Education Officer, Nelesi Mlungu, said the Reproductive Health project for adolescents will go a long way in building young people’s awareness, self awareness, self-esteem and ultimately enable them achieve their aspirations and dreams.