CCM Zanzibar presidential candidate Dr Hussein Mwinyi on Friday pledged financial and technological support to small entrepreneurs but asked them to come together and form strong associations. “It’s easier to reach and support you if you are together under strong groups than if you operate in isolation,” Dr Mwinyi told various entrepreneurial groups, which he met during his newly introduced campaign style that entails meeting specific groups of potential voters. Responding to Mgagadu Bodaboda Group’s request to have their business formalised, the presidential hopeful promised to work on the request if endorsed for the Zanzibar presidency in the October 28, 2020 General Elections. “If all other small businesses are formal, there is no justification for yours to remain informal,” Dr Mwinyi told the jubilant entrepreneurs in the motorbike riding at Mgagadu village in Mkoani District. Pemba South Regional Chairman of motorcyle riders Kasim Juma Hamis assured the presidential aspirant of at least 650 votes from bodaboda riders but decried a myriad of problems that haunt their business, especially financial constraints. Describing Dr Mwinyi as “Our president waiting for oath,” Mr Juma asked for specifically designed and affordable insurance packages and soft loans for the youth. The CCM presidential aspirant also met food vendors, fishermen, vegetable growers, seaweed farmers and soap makers among other entrepreneurs in Mwambe, Kiwani and Michenzani suburbs in Pemba south region’s Mkoani District. He pledged to intensify the government-financed economic empowerment fund to meet the financial needs of entrepreneurs. “My key goal is to accelerate Zanzibar economic growth and it’s through you that we can together attain that objective,” Dr Mwinyi promised, asking for votes. Entrepreneurs, mostly women in Mwambe Ward, assured the presidential aspirant of votes, saying: “Within you we see a bright future for us, especially women.” CCM’s Mkoani parliamentary seat candidate Professor Makame Mbarawa boasted of landslide victory in the coming general elections, saying: “Pemba people have changed, they are not the Pembas of 2010 and 2015...all they need today is development.” Dr Mwinyi implored Pemba residents to vote for CCM candidates and wait for economic and social development. “Vote for CCM, the only party that preaches peace and unity among wananchi...snub all parties that advocate violence and hatred amongst people,” he said. He promised provision of high quality social services, especially education, health and electricity. “We want to take health services close to the people ...patients should not walk long distances to get treatment,” he said. Dr Mwinyi launched his campaigns in Pemba on Wednesday, promising to transform Pemba Island into Zanzibar’s fishing and fish processing hub. After the successful campaign rally at Old Gombani grounds, the presidential seeker had two days of face-to-face campaigns with special groups under his “scientific campaign” drive. The youthful presidential hopeful was expected to fly to Unguja this evening ahead of his second public campaign meeting in Unguja at Nungwi on the outskirts of Zanzibar city on Sunday.