THE ruling CCM’s Zanzibar presidential candidate Dr Hussein Mwinyi on Wednesday returned his nomination forms, saying the ruling party will campaign scientifically to win the forthcoming 2020 General Election. "We, in CCM, are determined to conduct scientific campaigns to emerge with landslide victory," Dr Mwinyi told reporters soon after submitting his nomination papers to the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) Chairman Chief Justice (retired) Hamid Mahmoud Hamid. He implored all stakeholders in the election to observe the jointly signed codes of conduct and conduct decent and peaceful campaigns. "Let's embrace serene campaigns...abusive languages and mudslinging should be avoided," advised the presidential hopeful. Dr Mwinyi arrived at Maisara-headquartered ZEC offices at 11:18am accompanied by CCM heavyweights from Kisiwandui main office, including Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar) Dr Abdallah Juma Abdallah, National Executive Committee Secretary of Organisation Cassian Galos Nyimbo and Vice-Chairperson of CCM Youth Wing (UVCCM) Tabia Maulid Mwita. Justice Mahmoud commended the presidential seeker for accomplishing the first task almost a week ahead of the nomination date on September 10. Dr Mwinyi was also the first to pick the nomination documents on August 26, 2020, the date ZEC started issuing the papers. Meanwhile, two more presidential candidates from opposition parties Chadema and Civic United Front (CUF) collected their nomination forms here yesterday, bringing to 17 the total number of aspirants for Zanzibar presidency so far. Chadema's Said Issa Mohamed pledged to improve the education sector and boost remuneration to public servants towards increased efficiency in serving wananchi. "Education is key to all social and economic opportunities...I aspire to transform our education system to meet the current demands of the people," the presidential hopeful said soon after collecting the nomination documents. Mr Musa Haji Kombo picked the papers on CUF ticket, promising to form the best government that befits the characters of Zanzibaris. "Zanzibar is a good place, with nice people who deserve the best government," he charged. The presidential aspirant argued that given the resource endowment, which the Indian Ocean's semi-autonomous archipelago enjoys, there is no justification for the country and its people to remain poor. "God has blessed Zanzibar with all it takes to become prosperous but our leaders are failing us," he said, adding that should the islanders approve him for the Vuga-based office, he will transform Zanzibar into a donor nation.