YESTERDAY, the world marked International Coastal Cleanup also known as World Cleanup Day (WCD) to raise public awareness of mismanaged waste by mobilising world governments, organisations and individuals to participate in coastal or beach cleanup actions. Governments, individuals, corporations and organisations are encouraged to participate in cleanups and find solutions to mismanaged waste which poses a threat not only to human health, but also to other living organisms. This goes in line with a concern that ‘to care for ourselves, we must first care for nature’. There is now a growing global concern of environmental destruction, water and air pollution, including plastic waste that flows into oceans, including fresh water lakes and rivers, every year. Studies show that there is now 5.25 trillion macro and micro pieces of plastic in the oceans, weighing up to 269,000 tonnes. This is not mentioning the waste that flows into other water bodies. A recent study conducted by the University of Exeter in the United Kingdom in collaboration with the University of Queensland, Australia, has found plastic levels of 0.04mg per gramme of tissue in squid, 0.07mg in prawns, 0.1mg in oysters, 0.3mg in crabs and 2.9mg in sardines. Microplastics not only enter our diet from seafood, but also from bottled water, sea salt, beer and honey, as well the dust that settles on our meals, according to the study. So, it makes a lot of sense to participate in this global project to minimise the flow of plastic waste into the oceans and if we do it means we minimise also consumption of polluted seafood, bottled water, sea salt, beer and honey, which is to our detriment. We appeal to all citizens to do something about waste cleanup so that we may live in an environmentally-friendly world. To do something at global level we must start it as individuals in the sense of ‘think globally and act locally’. Tanzania banned plastic carrier bags effective from June 1, 2019. Since then the government has been encouraging traders to produce, supply and use alternative carrier bags that are environmentally friendly. Equally, citizens have been advised to buy and use only accepted carrier bags lest they fall into the hands of law enforcers. If we cultivate a culture of environmental conservation and protection, it means we care for our nature and for ourselves, eat healthy food and live in a clean and pollution-free environment. It is upon us to participate in WCD and ensure we don’t pollute the environment and water bodies for present and future generations and we can do it starting from now.