QUALITY playing, good attendance and competitiveness are being keenly awaited in the new Premier League season that officially starts this weekend. It won’t be an easy league when you consider that every team target to win the top throne and a ticket to represent Tanzania in the big continental level tournaments. So vast riches are up for grabs, but the spin-offs of taking part in the CAF Champions League will not just boost coffers for the teams, but will also help the country to climb up and earn two more tickets in both the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup in 2021/22 season. We would like to see the coming season clearly bring global visibility and global recognition, and out of that we are more likely to attract new fans, keep existing fans and you more likely to enter new markets. Once you enter new markets there are new revenue streams. For Simba who are in the CAF Champions League not just once – and that is crucial – is a nice bonus, but on an ongoing basis it provides the platform for creating and building and sustaining a business model that can generate a whole stream of benefits. In Africa, the Champions League is a “commercial phenomenon, and a look at the upcoming fixtures will underline the gulf with the CAF Confederation Cup competition. And as well as appreciation of squad value and there is appreciation in the value of brand that would accompany Simba and Namungo’s presence in the big continental level tournaments. The turn of events and experience convince possible changes in the 2020/21 season taking into consideration the overall performance had Simba, Young Africans, Azam and Namungo at the top-four berth. We remind football governing bodies, teams and players featuring in the country’s big leagues to be serious in preparing their youth players so that they become competitors in future and not just watchers of the of foreign leagues. They must be ready to challenge foreign players’ threat by demonstrating well their skills at both individual and teamwork basis. We would again insist the player engaged in this season to work hard for their teams and themselves as we have witnessed that football pays handsomely as an entertaining source of income. We would also like to congratulate all who made the 2020/21 the banner season.