CCM parliamentary candidate for Masasi Constituency in Mtwara Region, Mr Geofrey Mwambe, has promised to transform economic generating activities in the constituency to raise the livelihood of people in Masasi in Mtwara Region. Speaking during the inauguration of campaign rallies here yesterday Mr Mwambe said he would set up new and revive dormant economic activities that would enhance the efficiency of entrepreneurs in Masasi District. “My goal is to transform economic growth in Masasi and this would be possible through reviving dormant economic activities and initiating new ones,” he said. He said he would also set up projects that would specifically create employment and income generating opportunities for youth and women. He said he would collaborate with fellow professionals in Masasi and discuss ways of coming up with new technologies and management practices that would ensure the plans are successful. “Masasi has the highest number of professionals in the country and I will use them through collaboration to come up with development projects with the potential to create employment for youth and women,” he said, noting that he would come up with a system of giving loans to youth and women. Mr Mwambe said he would ensure the improvement of infrastructure, including construction of modern markets and bus stands, to facilitate the creation of business activities in the areas. “Despite its being a community business centre in Mtwara connecting areas such as Nachingwea, Newala, Tunduru and Mozambique, Masasi District has no bus stand suitable for handling movement of businesses,” he said. He said he would construct a modern bus stand to handle transport activities in the area. On the other hand, Mr Mwambe said he would set up an effective referral system in the provision of health care services in Masasi District, to ensure a close relationship between all levels of health care provision in the district. He said he would ensure construction of dispensaries in every village, health centre in all wards and renovation of the district referral hospital to enable people receive the best possible care closest to their homes. “Health care services in Masasi District are in good condition but we need to improve them to referral status by constructing dispensaries in villages, health care centres in each ward and improving the referral district hospital,” he said. He urged voters in Masasi to vote for him to enable him execute his development goals aimed at ensuring economic transformation by raising the living standard of the people. He asked the voters to vote for President Magufuli and Mwambe without forgetting the CCM councillor seat candidates in Masasi, saying CCM has the best and potential policies for social and economic growth in the country. Speaking when launching the campaign rallies, CCM Chairperson in Mtwara Yusuf Nannila told the rally that the government had recorded great achievements and thus CCM candidates including the CCM presidential aspirant, deserved to be elected. He said much of the 2015- 2020 manifesto goals had been implemented in Masasi. CCM regional secretary Al haj Said asked the CCM election candidates to put God first in every step they take towards soliciting election votes from people in Masasi. Mr Said said CCM was widely accepted, stressing the need for the candidates to conduct their rallies peacefully by promoting the party’s policies highlighted in the general election manifesto.