THE youth in the country have been encouraged to pursue studies in pharmaceutical industry which offers plenty of job opportunities. Statics show that the deficit of pharmacists has reached 94 per cent in the country as international standards require that one pharmacist attend to one thousand people. “With a population of nearly 59 million people, Tanzania has only 2101 registered pharmacists. This means that there is a huge opportunity for upcoming students,” said Ms Zainabu Nyangumi, the Deputy Registrar of the Pharmacy Council of Tanzania. Ms Nyangumi who was speaking in Dar as Salaam during the graduation ceremony of Tanzanian students who studied abroad this past weekend, told youths that as a middle income economy, the country depends on both a healthy population and promotion of medical producing industries, which raises the need for more qualified pharmacists. “Currently, the pharmacy council is channeling intern students not only to hospitals and health centers, but also to medical factories so that they can acquire more hands-on experience in producing medicine. This aims at expanding knowledge so that more medicines can in the future be processed locally and create jobs,” she insisted. Ms Nyangumi said that currently, there are only four local universities offering Bachelor of Pharmacy degree programs, which produces between 500 and 550 students every year. She added that those who pursue the same academic discipline abroad are below 40 who graduate every year, while the demand continues to grow as the government builds new hospitals and heath centers, yet there are a number of opportunities arising in private businesses and industries. For her part, the Pharmacy Council’s Head of Department, Ms Grace Malange said that the need for more qualified and trained pharmacists was also rising due to the reality on the ground that a big chunk of the population depends on drugstores for treatment. “Most people rush to pharmacies for treatment than hospitals. This means that we need more qualified pharmacists who will dispense the right medicines for safer and timely recovery and redeem the productive forces,” she pointed out.