FIFTEEN countries have been granted permission to bring international observers in the 2020 General Election, slated for October 28. The move came after the countries through their respective ambassadors submitted request to bring in their observers and followed all the required procedures. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Prof Palamagamba Kabudi made the remarks in Dar es Salaam when he met and held talks with European Union (EU) Ambassador Manfred Fanti. Prof Kabudi noted that this year’s election will be different because for the first time, it will be held by locally mobilised funds, unlike the past when the country depended on donors’ funds. “It will be a donor free election…for the first time the general election will be 100 per cent conducted through locally mobilised funds. “However, the electoral process under the country’s electoral law as well as the international procedure requires the presence of election observers. And, this year, observers from 15 countries have received the approvals after they followed the required procedures,” Prof Kabudi remarked. Prof Kabudi also met and held talks with Italian Ambassador to Tanzania Roberto Mengoni and later Polish Ambassador Krzysztof Buzalski. During the meetings, he presented them with election guidelines and regulations, so as to give them an opportunity to understand how elections are conducted in the country; especially after the existence of complaints from some opposition parties over the disqualification of their candidates. Ambassador Fanti said that the EU has been closely monitoring the ongoing general election process in the country, where so far, they are satisfied with the free and fair campaigns and are now preparing for the observing role. On the other hand, Ambassador Mengoni said that he was impressed with the way the media has been providing opportunities for all candidates freely and without bias. He further commended the way Tanzanians are showing up in large numbers to listen to candidates and their parties’ policies and manifestos. Ambassador Mengoni believes that the elected leader will be based on the will of the people. Apart from talks on the coming general election, Prof Kabudi and the ambassadors also discussed issues of strengthening diplomatic relations, economic development, trade and investment in various sectors including education, health, water and infrastructure. During a campaign rally at Mnadani grounds in Sengerema District, Mwanza region last week, incumbent President and CCM presidential candidate Dr John Magufuli revels in the success his government has attained, leading it to hold General Election without financial support from donors for the first time. Dr Magufuli said the government has already allocated funds for the whole process and that there is no single cent from donors in the budget.