THE ability to implement party election manifesto and coming up with proper plans on improving development in the country is one of the reasons for CCM to be re-elected in the coming General Election, former President Jakaya Kikwete has said. The former president made the statement on Wednesday in Mchinga constituency, Lindi region, while launching the party’s campaign ahead of the October 28th polls. Speaking at the rally that was also attended by the Presidential running mate, Samia Suluhu Hassan, Dr Kikwete, who was the fourth phase president and fondly referred to as JK said the government has been implementing a number of development projects, adding that a lot would be realized as stipulated in the party’s election manifesto for 2020-2025. According to him, tremendous changes that have been made by the government have completely changed the outlook of Lindi region from where it was during the 1980s. “The government has implemented 85 per cent of the promises CCM made for Lindi region in the election manifesto of 2015-2020, there is no doubt that more good things are coming,” he said. In the past, according to him it was difficult for residents of southern regions to travel to Dar es Salaam, because of poor infrastructures, but now that has become history as the government has invested much on infrastructural projects. “Some of the development projects that have been brought, we are all witnessing here in water, electricity, infrastructural, health and education sector,” he said. He was of the view that it is crucial for Mchinga residents to vote CCM and enable President John Magufuli to continue accomplishing all the projects, he started, which he said will bring further economic growth to the country. The former president also assured the rally that the CCM government was committed to fulfilling all pledges it made on projects and initiated including the implementation of a multi-trillion Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) in Lindi region. Earlier, speaking on Tuesday during the launch of CCM campaign in Lindi region, Dr Kikwete said that CCM is not only the ruling party in the country, but also the longest reigning party in Africa that has remained strong with policies that have made the country leap forward. However, he asked Lindi people to ignore claims by the opposition that the strategic project is dead, stressing that implementation is still alive and would be completed in the next five years.