THE Tanzania Bureau of Standard (TBS) has advised civil contractors to quantify the quality of building materials before using to avoid unnecessary losses. TBS said they had top quality laboratories that were ready for testing building materials and give the results at an appropriate time. Dodoma TBS Officer Tumaini Chimangha said at the just ended engineers’ exhibition that testing building materials led to a number of benefits that outweighed the consequences of not qualifying them. "We, therefore, advise them to bring the materials for testing and the results of whether are suitable or not for use are important to avoid unnecessary losses later," said Mr Chimangha. Any building material has to be selected carefully and quantified to ensure the safety and long lasting life of the building, roads or other infrastructure. Some of the basic construction materials include sand, coarse aggregates, fine aggregates, soil, quartz, granite and the like. TBS Director of Testing and Metrology Johanes Maganga said the benefit of testing the materials was to avoid losses in the manufacturing process. "One of the TBS tasks is to control the quality of materials used in the construction industry, whether they are locally-manufactured or imported," Mr Maganga said. He noted that to get quality products that met construction requirements it was important for stakeholders to use TBS. He said both materials, regardless of where were manufactured, TBS had mandate to test them to see whether they met national standards. In terms of locally-manufactured goods, he said they issued quality licences for quality products and had been going to markets and inspecting products to identify those which were below standard. For the products that came with certificates from abroad, a certificate of conformity (CoC), he said, they often retested the products before certifying them. TBS said the Dodoma exhibition was a good platform to provide education to various stakeholders such as contractors, teachers and journalists.