AFTER scoring probably the best goal of the second round of the Mainland Premier League to give his Polisi Tanzania side a deserved 1-0 win over Namungo FC, Rashid Juma has fired warning shots in the contest. Juma, who features for Polisi Tanzania on loan from Simba, proved to be a man to watch this season following his outstanding display at the Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi on Monday. His long range drive was enough to sink the host and made him the first player to score for his team this season. Speaking after the game, Juma said he was happy to open goal account for himself and the club after a back foot start against Azam as they lost 1-0. “The coach requested me to start on the bench today (Monday) and I am pleased to score the winning goal after coming in a substitute. “This is just the beginning and we still have more matches to come, hopefully, I will continue to score as many goals as I can,” he said. On his part, Namungo captain Hashim Mgunya conceded the defeat, saying their opponents were a much better side. “Our opponents were more organised than us and they played good game hence deserved to win but, the outcome should not disappoint our fans as they need to continue giving us support ahead of upcoming matches,” he said. He added: “The league is still at early stages and our target is to thrive to win home matches since if you lose at home, you give yourself a tough time to shine in away duels but all in all, this is football and we can also win away from home.” It was the first lose for Namungo this season after winning 1-0 in their first match of the campaign against Coastal Union at the same venue. Last season, Coastal Union were the only team to pocket maximum three points from the hostile territory out of the 20 teams, which paraded in the league but, this season, the Lindi based club surrendered early. Namungo will be the country’s envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup competition courtesy of being the finalists in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), as they lost 2-1 to Simba in the final.