One of the most successful and memorable ‘Wananchi Day’ that marks Young Africans SC Day was observed last Sunday with one of the club’s top members, former President, Jakaya Kikwete serving as the guest of honour. I’m saying it was one of the most successful and memorable days because of the number of members and fans who turned out at the newly christened Benjamin William Mkapa Stadium to mark the auspicious day, which is observed every year. Perhaps the most important thing which was spoken on Sunday was the observation made by Kikwete to the management of the club when he advised them to drop their case they filed at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) against their arch rivals, Simba on the Ghanaian player Bernard Morisson. The former president instead, appealed to his club’s management to take the question of soccer academy more seriously, arguing that was the best way of preparing their future players. This was the second time the former president was talking about the importance of preparing the club’s future players through soccer academy. The first time was last year during the club’s members meeting at the Diamond Jubillee Hall, when he criticised them for their excitement about some of the foreign players he they had registered from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Kikwete said the foreign players they had registered may help them even in winning the league and perform better in their international soccer tournaments. But that’s all. However, their national soccer team would be weak as the foreign players they had registered would be turning out for their respective national soccer teams. Kikwete was also not happy over the number of foreign players clubs were being allowed to register, ten, for obvious reason that it reduced further opportunities for local players. My personal take on the former president is I still support the club’s decision to file the case at the CAS in Switzerland for a variety of reasons. Chief among it is that it would expose a lot of murky deals which may in the end teach both clubs lessons on the very thing our former president has said, namely, the importance of working on our own children in producing our young talents into future stars. For instance, to have one’s case at the CAS heard and determined, Young Africans would be required to pay 40,000 US dollars, quite a staggering sum. But once they have done that, and go on to lose the case, they would be consequences, financially. But if they win the case, it would be quite comforting for them. As their arch soccer rivals would be required to pay so much that it may even affect them in the league. N ow it is important for both clubs to be subjected to the foregoing as that may probably drive some sense into both of them why it is important to fight for players they have developed rather than those other countries have developed. And, talking about developing young talents through soccer academies, one can understand and appreciate Kikwete’s repeated appeals not only to Young Africans, but also to all the clubs in the country for scientific development of their young talents. Indeed, no club in the country is well informed about the importance of soccer academy for any club than Young Africans who had produced some of the best players in their history through an academy which was produced by their former coach, Professor Victor Stanculescus from Romania in 1970s. The Romanian turned US citizen had been recruited by Young Africans Sports Club management under the leadership of Mangara Tabu Mangara to train the club soon after the club’s tour of Romania in 1969. Professor Victor saw the team which was during the time at its peak and told his employers that if they wanted to last, it was important they worked on young talent instead of wasting time on players who would soon start their journey to the bottom. But the club leadership was adamant. They wanted the coach to work on the first and second teams. As usual, their interest was in ensuring that they won whatever matches they had against their arch soccer rivals, Simba. Professor Victor did what his employers told him to do. But he also established an academy of his own on the sidelines. He wanted to prove to his bosses why he wanted to prepare a youthful team. After three years of his stay in the country, the Romanian had produced the most exciting youthful side in the country’s soccer history. Since he had recruited children who were between 10 and 13, after three years of working hard daily at the Jangwani sports grounds from 1pm to 3pm, the twenty plus players had ages that ranged between 13 and 16. And, whenever Professor Victor’s children played against the senior team, the latter lost. But the club leadership was adamant. They continued to use the senior team in all tournaments, locally and internationally. Yanga Kids as they became known would later play in all matches after the breakup of the club during the club crisis in 1976 when most of the left the club to form what would become known as Pan African Sports Club which has since disappeared into oblivion. When all is said and done, I personally think it is time all our clubs listened to our former President, Jakaya Kikwete on the importance of establishing soccer academies.