The Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA) is set to receive a lion’s share of cash as East African Legislative Assembly (Eala) started tabling 226.4bn/- ($97.6m) budget estimates yesterday. Based in Kampala, IUCEA will pocket 25bn/- ($10.9m) as it continues fostering collaboration between universities among the six partner states. ICUEA leads other EAC institutions with the most disbursement followed by the Lake Victoria Basin Commission which is set to receive 19bn/- ($8.3m). According to the estimates, 7bn/- ($3,077,934) is earmarked for the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation to enhance the coordination of the management and development of fisheries and aquacultural resources in the EAC region. The East African Science and Technology Commission is set to receive 3.5bn/- ($1,536,751) followed by the East African Kiswahili Commission which will pocket 3.2bn/- ($1.3m) in the estimates. The East African Health Research Commission is set to receive 4.3bn/- ($1,879,600) while the East African Competition Authority, will benefit from 2.6bn/- ($1,128,240) in the fiscal year 2020/21. The 2020/21 budget is themed: “Stimulating the economy to safeguard livelihoods, jobs, businesses and industrial recovery.” According to Prof Nshuti Manasseh, who is the chairperson of the EAC Council of Ministers and State Minister for EAC,  the budget estimates come at a time when the region is still reeling from the effects (and after-effects) of the Covid-19 pandemic, leading to lockdowns and a slow-down in economic activities. “The impact of the pandemic on EAC Partner States, though not yet assessed fully, is no doubt surmounting,” the minister said. He reiterated the EAC budget would complement the efforts of Partner States and development partners to spur economic recovery arising from the Covid-19 disruptions. The estimates will delve on several priority programmes. Key among them are on the consolidation of Single Customs Territory (SCT) to cover imports and intra-EAC traded goods, including agricultural and other widely consumed products as well as enhanced infrastructural development in the region. He observed that for the region to succeed in its programmes, consolidated political support for the integration process as well as availability of adequate financial resources and timely remittances were vital. Success in efforts to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is a further assumption in the successful implementation of the 226.4bn/- budget. “This will lead to a further reduction in the time taken by travellers and trucks at borders and on the overall cost of doing business in the region,” he added.