THE Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Juma Homera has awarded certificates of outstanding performance 2020 to 18 military personnel who conducted two special operations and subsequently seized 83 military firearms and 28 rounds of ammunitions at Katumba and Mishamo refugee settlements. The crackdown dubbed “Operesheni Safisha Mishamo na Katumba” was carried out early this year for 21 days at Mishamo and Katumba settlement areas in Tanganyika and Mpanda districts respectively, where18 former Burundian nationals with Tanzanian citizenship were also arrested. Four of the suspects were arrested in Katumba refugee settlement area while the remaining suspects were arrested in Mishamo refugee camp. Besides awarding the certificates in question, the RC urged heads of state organs in the region to cooperate in ensuring election campaigns and the forthcoming general election are conducted in a peaceful environment. The certificate awarding ceremony was held at the police play ground in Mpanda Town and which involved a special parade. During his working tour in Katavi region on October last year, President John Magufuli spoke strongly against refugees being involved in criminal activities. The Head of State expressed his anger over the growing habit of naturalized Tanzanians being involved in crime in the region. Dr Magufuli therefore warned the refugees involved in criminal activities, which includes poaching and armed robberies that those implicated will face the full force of law. The president ordered for a routine operation to weed out criminals in the refugee resettlement in the region. The soldiers from state organs in the region in collaboration with Katavi regional administration carried out the crackdown conducted in two settlement areas in the Southern Highland region. Most former Burundian nationals who were naturalized but still living in the refugee camps in Katavi region are said to be actively engaged in poaching activities as well as smuggling firearms in the country. Meanwhile, the Katavi Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr Benjamin Kuzaga said the police in collaboration with other state organs have agreed to carry out another special operation to weed out criminals in the refugee camps after gathering important intelligence information.