OPPOSITION Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) plans to transform the agriculture sector from subsistence to a modern and highly commercial sector. If elected into power in the October 28th, 2020 General Election, the Chadema led government will give top priority to irrigation schemes, which is emphasised within the party’s manifesto, he said. Speaking to reporters and editors at his residence in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Chadema presidential candidate, Mr Tundu Lissu said agriculture has a lot of growth potential in Tanzania but the country had yet to tap it fully because of over reliance on rain seasons and sticking to outdated farming methods. The outspoken politician said development of  an irrigation system has an unprecedented opportunity to transform Tanzania’s  agricultural sector but it requires massive investments especially in infrastructure, technology and modern farming equipments. “The truth is, there is no agricultural revolution without electricity, thus rural electrification is of paramount importance. Agriculture needs to undergo a very big change especially in this era where technology has grown so much,” he said, adding: “Irrigation does not require a farmer to have a very large farm, for example, China undertake this type of farming so what we are thinking is how to transform rural Tanzania by putting in place irrigation infrastructure, so that when the rainy season ends, we change to irrigation,” he said. Mr Lissu said experts say there is enough underground water in Tanzania which he said the Chadema government will give priority to. They also plan to invest in rainwater harvesting technology as well as effective use of dams, rivers and lakes to promote irrigation. On dual citizenship, he said the Chadema government will come up with constitutional amendments that will allow dual citizenship and ensure that no Tanzanian is stripped of his/her identity just because he/she has taken citizenship of another country unless the person has renounced Tanzanian citizenship. According to him, Tanzania has no accurate statistics of remittances like other countries, citing countries like Nigeria in which remittance flows stood at 22 billion US Dollars and accounted for 5.74 per cent of its GDP in 2018. “I support dual citizenship and as president, we will make changes to our Tanzania Citizenship and Immigration Act of 1995 as amended in 2016, the move will allow dual citizenship and ensure the country gets remittance as other countries,” he noted. Mr Lissu said the Chadema government also plans to establish a special department to manage Tanzanian expatriates, who will be recognised as Tanzanians together with their descendants. Children who are born or who have been born to Tanzanians abroad and have reached the age of 18, will be able to apply for Tanzanian passports, he said. Mr Lissu also called on the National Election Commission (NEC) to ensure they provide sufficient results forms for the number of candidates at all levels, so that each party agents can get their copies for transparent purposes.