ACT-Wazalendo has pledged to establish an authority specifically charged with regulating the agricultural sector by ensuring that farm produce fetch good prices and improve efficiency in the supply of agricultural inputs. According to the party’s 2020-2025 election manifesto, the authority will work closely with technical colleges, agricultural research institutes and local factories to ensure that more than 60 per cent of agricultural inputs are produced within the country. The election document launched in Dar es Salaam on Monday stated that the party will also invest at least 100bn/- a year in research, distribution of quality agricultural seeds and create a value chain for every locally produced crop. The party furthermore pledges that if elected in the upcoming election, an ACT-Wazalendo led government would also expand and improve agriculture sector related colleges to revolutionise it, as well as livestock and fisheries sectors. The manifesto further states that the government would also allocate 20 per cent of the development budget to the agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors, twice more than what the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP) agreement spells out. “The government will also link the agricultural sector with the manufacturing one, by ensuring that local industries get more than 80 per cent of their raw materials from farmers, to allow the group to enjoy the best prices for their produce and a reliable market,” reads part of the document. The party’s manifesto further said that the major drive for the development of the important sector will be on identifying the types of strategic products for each region and encourage mass production, including setting a good plan to add the value of these products before selling them to local and foreign markets. ACT-Wazalendo will also allow farmers, fishermen and pastoralists to sell their produce within or outside the country without tough conditions. The document further reveals that the government will establish a special agriculture fund to subsidize strategic agricultural projects, especially the ones for the establishment of factories for processing farmers’ produce. On irrigation, the manifesto states that the party will invest in irrigation infrastructure that protects and conserves the environment. “Tanzania has a treasure trove of 29 million hectares suitable for irrigation... The main emphasis will be placed on sustainable irrigation using solar irrigation schemes, develop smallholder farmers and when to use groundwater. We will expand irrigated agriculture from 694,715 hectares in 2020 to 1.5 million hectares by 2025,” reads part of the document. According to the manifesto, the party will also give priority to organic farming, to increase its production and feed the huge export market. The government, in collaboration with international institutions, will improve the certification system for organic produce. Extension officers, farmers’ associations and government officials will be empowered to promote and facilitate subsistence farming using the organic farming system. In recognition of the contribution of fisheries and livestock sector, ACT-Wazalendo government would invest in and ensure sustainable fisheries and livestock activities across the country, including investing in modern auctions and expand domestic and international markets. The document indicates, too, that ACT-Wazalendo government would improve the business environment for aquatic products such as seaweed, for the benefit of local fishermen. “It will set aside areas specifically for pastoralists and invest in water and grazing infrastructure to end conflicts between farmers and pastoralists,” the 62 page document reads in part. ACT-Wazalendo pledges to ensure that water, road, communications, marketing, insurance and credit services are accessible to enable farmers, pastoralists as well as fishermen to undertake their activities easily and be assured of legitimate income from their work. The goal is to make them live a secure life; a life of ease and happiness.