NGOME and the national team pugilist, Alex Isendi put up an outstanding performance to outpoint Sebastian John of JKT HQ in the ongoing National Boxing Championship bout at River Nile hall in Babati, Manyara. It was a sessional encounter as both boxers had wonderful records prior to the bout. In February, Isendi, the lightweight boxer represented the country in African Olympic Qualifiers at Dakar, Senegal where he had a perfect start after defeating his Libyan opponent Mahamed Almasori. Even though he was not able to progress to semis after he was knocked out by Jonas Jonas of Namibia in the quarterfinal stage. His opponent Sebastian John had a good display last month as he walked out of the National Open Boxing Championship at Tanganyika Packers in Kawe with a gold medal after defeating Shabani Mganda of JKT HQ. Apart from Isendi bout, there were more bouts fought on the day. Ibrahim Wegoro of Tarangire Manyara beat Enos Erasto of Tanzanite Manyara while Joshua Shedrack (Kagera) knocked out Yusufu Mambo of Ruvu and Marko Francis of Ngome beat James Ndunguru of Ruvu in a thrilling bout. On the same, fans witnessed Abdallah Mfaume of Tanzanite Manyara emerging victorious by referee’s decision to save Ashrafu Hashim of Kagera from further damage. Mfaume spent 28 seconds to complete his fight. In the middle weight bout, Haruna Sinundo for JKT HQ spent 27 seconds to knock out Ally Abdallah of Arusha. It was indeed a good encounter for Sinundo who looked more experienced compared to his opponent rival. Prior to the bout, he had grabbed a gold medal during the National Open Boxing Championship at Kawe in Dar es Salaam. In the same weight, Uledi Rashid of Mgulani knocked out Lutufyo Sanga of Band Coy in just 25 seconds, similarly to Sinundo in the previous bout. The competition that commenced on Monday, reaches its climax tomorrow. It has drawn clubs from Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Pwani, Manyara, Arusha and Kagera. The clubs involved are Tanzanite Manyara, Tarangire Manyara, JKT Headquarters, JKT Mgulani, JKT Mbweni, JKT Ruvu, Ngome Club, BandCoy, Kagera and Arusha Team.