YESTERDAY, ‘Daily News’ published an article where Home Affairs Minister George Simbachawene met and assured the US government that the country was safe and would maintain security for its people and foreigners. Speaking with newly appointed US Ambassador to the country, Dr Donald Wright, who had visited the Minister’s Office at the Government City in Mtumba at the weekend, Mr Simbachawene said the security of the country was high on the country’s agenda, adding: “We have also attracted foreigners in investment areas and tourist attraction sites. May I assure you, Mr Ambassador our country is safe.” With that official statement and what everyone is seeing in the country with politicians crisscrossing every region looking for votes peacefully, the business community in particular should not fear because Tanzania’s political climate will never interrupt their activities. Tanzania is a country that respects human rights right from the grassroots, that is why its economy has been flourishing and still expects to climb for the benefit of nationals and investors in a win-win situation. That is why in response the US Envoy, Dr Wright, had to say: “Tanzanians are hospitable and gentlepeople who are glad all the time. I am very glad to be in Tanzania, representing the US. The US and Tanzania will continue enhancing bilateral relations between the two countries.” With this background, no one expects to see any trader hoarding any essential good fearing that the political climate will change. Everyone should know that hoarding creates unnecessary fear and panic which results in an increase in the demand of essential goods in the market, something you and I would not want to see. Hoarding also causes anger, resentment and depression among family members, and it can affect the social development of children as affects the entire nation. Unlivable conditions may lead to separation or divorce, eviction and even the loss of child custody and financial problems. Tanzanians want peace and that is what political leaders have also been preaching in their campaigns, because at the end of the day, the campaigns will come to an end, but Tanzania will remain. Even if they know (traders just like everyone else) they should be reminded not to hoard any commodity or stuff a lot of money abroad fearing for what has and will never be there, because Tanzanians are peaceful people and want one another more than ever.