TANZANIA Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) has picked Mlimani City Mall in Dar es Salaam as venue for December 11-13 Africa Kabaddi Championship whose preparation gathers momentum. TKSA are organising the event for the first time in the history under the auspices of the Africa Kabaddi Confederation (AKC). Abdallah Nyoni, the association’s chairman told the ‘Daily News’ in the City that the event will involve teams representing AKC member states. He said that the championship will be in the national style and competition would be held for both men and women’s categories and is open to all AKC members’ teams. Nyoni said: “The organising committee welcomes all participants from African and non-African countries, the land of the tallest mountain in Africa Mount Kilimanjaro, the land of Serengeti National Park, and the Zanzibar archipelago.” He said that participants will see the economic and social development achieved by Tanzanians; above all they will enjoy Swahili culture, traditions and cultural activities, and learn Swahili language, lovely language of Tanzanians. “Kabaddi sports is coming to make changes for Tanzanians, they expect to love and watch the game in television stations, to play and to participate in all forms of kabaddi (National, Beach and Circle Kabaddi),” he said. Adding, Nyoni said they are keen to see Kabaddi become a major sport in schools and out of schools youth to be playing in streets and institutions. He said they are very proud this tournament comes to Tanzania after the end of corona scare that has affected all global sports. Nyoni stressed that the game of Kabaddi in Tanzania will increase its popularity in sports, tourism, business and providing youth employment and also open the doors to players register in international team as professional too. He said spectators will have chance to see players chant kabaddi! Kabaddi! in 30 min raid to secure point while the stopper try to catch up. “Kabaddi can often be considered a stupid game, but its players have played a major role in our society. Watch as they play with excitement, they immediately give up and then change the result and then there is excitement,” stated Nyoni.