THE Magnet Youth Sports Academy (MYSA) over the weekend organised a special health screening exercise to all their players for the purpose of knowing their well-being before engaging them in sports activities. This is one of the essential exercises, which ought to be regularly done to players of all ages, as it thoroughly helps to assess their health and make them perform well in sports. Speaking here during the campaign, MYSA Chairman Tuntufye Mwambusi said the main reason which forced them to conduct the health examination on the players was to know better their health prior to let them embrace sport activities. “You need to first know the health of players before allowing them to partake in any of the sport activities. This is one step further which we have taken as one way to ensure that our academy is run in a professional manner,” he said. He added that sometimes, youths are allowed to play without knowing that they have serious problem such that if they continue to play, the problem also expand hence causing big challenges in the near future. “Usually, we tend to take them (players) to the hospital when they pick an injury but this exercise will help to know in advance if they have health complications and how they can best be treated before,” he said. He therefore, seized the opportunity to urge other sport academies in the country to follow suit by screening their players before giving them various training sessions, saying it will highly help to avoid encountering health related problems. On his part, one of the doctors who performed the examination Mwanandi Mwankemwa recommended that health screening on players should be conducted annually. “This is a very important thing to players of all ages as they need to undergo health examination regularly. “With frequent screening, many problems that players face in their sport careers can adequately be eradicated and this exercise should highly be encouraged by all academies and even big clubs in the country,” Mwankemwa, who is also a team doctor at Azam FC, said. MYSA is among the best performing football academies in the country as they have expert and experienced trainers no wonder they do well in both domestic and international competitions.