AFTER an exciting wait, at last the electoral campaign journey has begun. Since last week, we are witnessing parties mobilising significant human and financial resources to enable them communicate messages to citizens in order to win their support. Even though it is not very much talked about, let me remind the general public that during this important period in the life of mother Tanzania, there shall be, as in any electoral campaign in the world, potential risks too which we should not allow to surface. As far as my experience and knowledge in the field is concerned, these risks are wide-range, including, but not limited to, psychological and physical violence, sometimes directed against candidates, party activists and supporters. Let us not forget, there could also be violence directed against women and other marginalised or vulnerable groups. It is for this reason that my column today shall be coloured by a sincere citizen call that we should not allow the peace that we built for many years be tampered on. Let us protect our peace. We should not bury our heads in the sand. Yes, we cannot at all ignore an unpleasant situation and hope it will stop if we do not think about it. No. What we are beginning to see and hear, I mean provocative political party campaigning in the media and political party rallies, in particular the use of inflammatory language and hate speech, is not good news. I see this as a critical moment for each one of us to shield that serenity, concord and order we continue to enjoy since the days of Mwalimu. The African proverb; peace is costly but it is worth the expense, says it all. We know that peace is the only battle worth waging, says Albert Camus (1913-1960), a French philosopher, author, and journalist who won the Nobel Prize in Literature at the age of 44 in 1957, and the second-youngest recipient in history. I hear many say responsible institutions should maintain peace or a safe environment for political party candidates. Well, this is fine. But there is more to it, because in reality, to forget that citizens are also important members of the community, who should be supported so as to organise and participate in the campaign activities, could lead to a disastrous electoral campaign situation. I am glad that some, both non-state and state actors are already working hard to promote peaceful and democratic electoral campaigning. I see them carefully monitoring, recording and reporting about incidents, some of which are real and need attention of the highest level. This we insist because there shall be life after elections, and we do not want Tanzanians to say, as Thomas Paine (1737-1809), an English- born American political activist, philosopher, and political theorist puts it; if there must be trouble, let it be in my day, that my child may have peace. This brings me to yet another important point on peace. It is about change. And my emphasis is on a changed world, a changed Tanzania. This change requires a changed mentality, not only among candidates, but change of attitude and expectation among citizens. The change I am thinking about which needs our peace protected so that we can press on is to do with our local level evident socio-economic and political changes in our country. I know there is still much to be done, but it would be unrealistic to pretend that Tanzanians have seen no change since independence. To ignore what is vivid would not be a fair option but to affirm that many who do not appreciate are harbouring one or more of the five great enemies to peace to inhabit with people, namely: avarice or greed, ambition, envy, anger, and pride. At the regional level, it is obvious that our persistent efforts to see processes of change in terms of, among other things, decolonization and continentalisation and on an international scale challenges global inequality. Let us therefore protect our peace and consider the 2020 elections as that which places Tanzania at an opportune position, be it at home or abroad, for there is no way to peace, peace is the way, said Abraham Johannes Muste (18 85-1967), a Dutchborn American clergyman and political activist. Once again it is mainly the candidates themselves who will determine the direction of this election, for their actions and behavior may exaggerate security threats or contribute to peaceful outcomes of, in my view, tense situations. This does not mean that when parties made a public declaration of their commitment to peace ahead of the 2020 elections is not important, no, it was a necessity, because preserving peace is a shared responsibility, that is why I am, once again, admonishing politicians to promote peace during the electoral campaign and avoid the use of hate speech or insults. As it is well known, candidates are different, and we should be aware of this. There are those who can keep the peace within themselves, so that they can also bring peace to others, but there are others who are best defined by Maxime Lagacé, a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender in the following words; little people are intolerant, selfish and impatient. Wise people are calm, loving and understanding. So, I encourage candidates, my fellow citizens who wish to be elected to various posts, to seek to contribute to peaceful political processes which have just begun and ensure that they avoid comments, statements and insults that would incite others. I hope candidates will campaign while bearing in mind that our country remains, aaccording to the Global Peace Index (GPI) 2019, the most peaceful country in the East African region, and seventh most peaceful in Sub-Saharan Africa. In fact, this success has not come as a surprise. It is the outcome of great work that our leaders did which has enabled the country to maintain peace, which is important for our country’s development, including attracting both domestic and foreign direct investments. What we need to see is peaceful rallies, and nothing else. My prayer is that when the election is done, we will be able to say that the elections were generally peaceful and orderly because minor incidents were quickly addressed by the relevant bodies which are currently positioned at various strategic places in the country. A concluding message to all candidates comes from the wisdom of Desmond Mpilo Tutu, a South African Anglican cleric and theologian known for his work as an anti-apartheid and human rights activist and a Nobel Peace Prize winner in 1984, who says; do your little bit of good where you are; it’s those little bits of good put together that overwhelm the world, and if you want peace, you don’t talk to your friends. You talk to your enemies. My humanity is bound up in yours, for we can only be human together. Best wishes to candidates. Cheers! ● Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s U niversity of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@ gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997