LIVES of children in Ng’apa village in Morogoro Region are at risk as everyday they are supposed to travel to Msimba Primary School, 10km away from their home. The route to school is along the Iringa-Morogoro highway that is kept very busy by upcountry buses plying the Dar es Salaam- Tunduma Highway, cargo trucks as well as private cars. The pupils are lucky in that sometimes they are given lifts from some buses such as Al-Saedy and ABC on their way to Iringa. But not all students get lifts; those who are unable are left with no option but to go to and from school on foot, a move that exposes them to accidents by the fast moving vehicles. Also, in between their homes and schools there are forests and villagers farms, an environment which isn’t conducive for the pupils to travel on foot. “We are not getting these lifts every day because sometimes we can find the bus that usually takes us has already gone,” says Bariki Polilei, a Standard Four pupil. Mr Ramadhani Omari, a conductor with Al-Saedy bus, says “we give lifts to the pupils every day to help them get to school early.” He added: “This also motivates them to study, despite the challenges they face. They need to be motivated to go to school. Their future depends on education that is why we are doing what is in our capacity.” In early August this year, three children were killed and two others seriously injured in Arusha after they were knocked by a speeding car that veered off the road. Reports from the Arusha Regional Police Commander, Salum Hamduni said the victims, from Olmot Secondary school, were hit along the East African Community road as they were walking on a sidewalk. “They were going to their homes from school when the grisly accident occurred; the driver is set to appear in court,” he said. The two injured students were rushed to Mount Meru Hospital for treatment. Again, on February 12 this year, five pupils at Ndelenyuma Primary School at Madaba in Ruvuma region were killed in a road accident after a vehicle ran over them as they were attempting to cross the road. Ruvuma Regional Police Commander Simon Maigwa said the accident involved six pupils, where five died on the spot and the remaining one sustained injuries and was rushed to the hospital for treatment. “It’s unfortunate to have this accident that has claimed the lives of our children, they were going back home from school,” Maigwa said, noting that police were holding the driver whose car had hit the children. Equally, in October last year, two Standard One pupils at the Maromboso Primary School in Arusha were killed in a road accident that occurred in the morning as they were heading to school. They were hit by a car that eye witnesses said was passing the wrong way. One pupil died on the spot while another one was passed on at the hospital as he was waiting for treatment. The head of the legal department at the Traffic Headquarters Deus Sokoni said apart from punishment that is given people who violate the law, police in collaboration with stakeholders have been giving public education on proper use of roads. “Since protection is better than cure, the department has been issuing education to all road users including children at primary and secondary schools, for them to be familiar with the proper use of the road to avoid accidents,” he said. Education has been offered through media programmes, supply of brochures, public concerts and conferences as police work closely with stakeholders such as Puma Energy in disseminating information. “Moreover, we have been insisting that drivers take extra care when driving because not all pedestrians are aware of the laws,” he said. The concern on the accidents involving students is not only for the government, but also parents and stakeholders, as they have raised their voices suggesting a way forward to curbing road carnage. Mr Isaya Doita, a resident of Arusha called for the need for parents to have their children admitted in schools near their homes to avoid walking long distances. For people who have admitted their children in private schools they must ensure the availability of reliable transport. “It is too risky to let the children walk a long distance to school; public schools are everywhere, and the kids who were knocked here were crossing almost three wards to their school. It is painful to lose them,” said Mr Doita, a councillor of Ngarenaro ward in Arusha. A global non-governmental organization, Amend, came up with a study aimed at slowing traffic and separating child pedestrians from vehicles, along with site-specific road safety education. Titled, “School Area Road Safety Assessment and Improvements (SARSAI)”, the study, among other things, urges the government and its stakeholders to continue cooperating on creating a conducive environment to protect children from accidents.