BEFORE the nomination of candidates who now will face the popular vote, those who had expressed interest in vying for various positions in the October General Election were having butterflies in their stomach. The dust has now settled down; we know who is standing for what position, where, so now the focus must surely be on how the candidates conduct themselves to convince us that they are worthy our votes. One area which needs to be addressed by candidates is the importance of sport in the lives of Tanzanians. I would aim at turning every Tanzanian into a sports person, not merely as a fan, but as an active participant. This is because I believe everyone can play some game: walking, jogging, some physical exercise and what have you. We need to do this particularly, to keep fit; and save ourselves, and the nations millions of shillings in health care. In order for this to happen, we need facilitation. That is why playfields are so important in each and every neighbourhood. That is why we need friendly roads, which have provisions for people to walk or jog safely. That is why, this feature article in the Saturday Nation (August 8, pages 44-45) entitled: “How Obiri’s Father pushed her to athletics glory”, was of interest to me. The story is adorned with a photograph showing three people, all having something to do with sports. However, the caption has something unexpected. It reads: “Helen Obiri (centre) is welcomed and congratulated by HIS father, IB (left), and Sports Cabinet Secretary, AM, on October 7 2019, when the Kenyan Team arrived from the World athletic Championship in Doha”. You are possibly as surprised as I am, as to why the writer chose to refer to Helen’s father as “his father”, instead of “her father”. You see, Helen is female and the possessive adjective has to reflect this. Yet, that is what the writer did, repeating the same mistake, further in the article, after he had narrated that Helen’s father loved athletics to the core: “He wanted some of his children to take up the sport, but it is HER fourth born daughter who showed potential owing to her swiftness in doing things”. This is quite intriguing. Where the writer should use “her” he uses “his”, and vice versa, where he should use “his”, he goes for “her”. How do you get away with that? Meanwhile, at one time in the course of her career, the female athlete in the article (Helen) had put on some weight and her coach is reported to have done something about it: “I gave her a basic programme for speed so as to ‘SHADE’ off some weight. Our target was 800m”. “Shade” off some weight? Surely not! You “shed off” weight, if you want to look leaner, a must, if you aim at keeping fit and remaining competitive in athletics. According to the reporter, the athlete could have put on weight because: “Coaches concentrated ‘with’ top elite athletes and not novices like her”. Concentrated “with”? I would say: “concentrated on”: “Coaches concentrated on top elite athletes and not novices like her”, meaning their attention was focused on the former, not on the latter. If you are new to a sport and your coach concentrates on those who are more experienced, you could face problems in the field, and that is what the writer seems to say when he writes: “Greenhorn Helen faced baptism ‘by’ fire in 1,500m at the same event”. “Greenhorn” could be a new word to you. It means a person who is new to, or inexperienced at a particular activity. On the other hand, “baptism by fire”, is a modification of the idiom “baptism of fire”. As is the rule with idioms, such modification is not allowed. “Baptism of fire” means: “a difficult introduction to a new job or activity”. Thus, if you participate in a sport where you are a greenhorn, you could face a baptism of fire. “Sports for all” would be my “cri de guerre” during these selection campaigns! lusuggakironde@gmail.com