THE ruling CCM’s Zanzibar presidential candidate Dr Hussein Mwinyi yesterday pledged sweeping reforms in the education sector, which he described as the engine of his envisioned modern economy. "Our aspirations for modern economy will require highly competent, skilled and qualified professionals...it's my intention to review our education system to cope with the ctry's current demand," Dr Mwinyi said. He highlighted five specific areas—infrastructure; teaching and learning tools; funding; human resources; and information systems—on which he will focus if endorsed for the top job in the October 28, 2020 general elections. The presidential hopeful promised to put in place decent and supportive educational infrastructure, especially buildings to "create a conducive learning environment for our children from nursery to higher learning levels." Speaking at a special ceremony to award the 2020 Form Six students who excelled in their June/July examinations, Dr Mwinyi said, "We have to review the system of our educational funding and increase it." He pleaded with the potential university students to turn up in big numbers on October 28 and vote for the ruling party. The presidential hopeful expressed his dreams of improving the quality of education and increasing the national pass rate. During the latest national examinations, which attracted over 2,500 Zanzibar candidates, over 100, 500 and 700 examinees scored divisions one, two and three, respectively. CCM youth wing, UVCCM Vice-Chairperson Tabia Mwita assured the presidential aspirant of landslide victory, thanks to the support of the youth. "We, CCM youth, have no other alternative to victory," she bragged off. Earlier, Health Ministry's Director of Operations and Services Ramadhan Khamis Juma advised the students to pursue courses in the health sector, which has a massive shortage of workforce. "Our recent research has shown that the country has a shortage of over 3,000 experts in various cadres in health," said the director, imploring students to pursue biomedical engineering courses. Dr Mwinyi launched his campaigns here on Saturday, declaring zero-tolerance on corruption, theft and laziness. He pledged to mercilessly fight all sorts of corruption and embezzlement of public resources, reminding especially public servants to get rid of 'as usual' syndrome in public offices. Dr Mwinyi further said he will never hesitate to take to task the irresponsible civil servants.