AT least 34,935 kilometres are set to be added to the country’s road network under Tanzania Rural and Urban Road Agency (Tarura) in the coming five years, the manifesto of the ruling CCM, states. According to the party’s 2020-2025 election manifesto, the plan focuses on increasing the network from the current 108,946 km to 143,881km. It states that in order to accomplish the targeted goal, the government is looking forward to boosting the Tarura budget so as to meet construction costs, for facilitating timely repairs of rural and urban roads. The manifesto also hints that in the coming five years, the government will increase the network for tarmac roads from 2,025 km to 3,100km by 2025. “These roads under Tarura will help to boost the country’s economy by creating a good business environment and enabling smooth engagement in social- economic activities at large,” reads part of the manifesto. Moreover, the document explains that the government will expand the network for rough roads from 24,493 km to 35,000 km by 2025. The manifesto adds that in order to boost social and economic activities in the country’s commercial capital, Dar es Salaam, the government focuses on strengthening transportation services under phase one Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). The manifesto states categorically that over the coming five years, the government will make sure that BRT phase two, three and four projects are implemented effectively. The projects will involve the implementation of BRT along Kilwa Roads on which the construction links from Mbagala Terminal to Kariakoo terminal. Another road involves Nyerere road which covers Gongo la Mboto, Posta ya Zamani through Nkrumah street, Bibi Titi, Maktaba and Azikiwe. Plus, Uhuru Street through Buguruni to Kariakoo terminal through Shaurimoyo and Lindi streets. Another phase will involve Ali Hassan Mwinyi road through Tegeta Nyuki, Sam Nujoma (Mwenge-Ubungo). According to the manifesto, all councils across the country will be required to allocate funds from domestic revenues for infrastructure development in both rural and urban areas. The manifesto also states that the government will support research and studies on modern road construction technology, which is simple and cheaper to use. “The government must also involve the surrounding community in renovating roads. The practice will resolve employment challenges by offering employment to wananchi,” reads part of the statement. Generally, during the past five years, the government has accomplished construction of a new tarmac road network of 3,500 kilometres, thus making a country have a total of 12,964 kilometres road network. In his speech to dissolve the 11th parliament, President John Magufuli said during his first term, the government completed building other major bridges, including Nyerere Bridge, Magufuli Bridge along Kilombero River and Sibiti Bridge. The construction works for other major bridges are ongoing, including Kigongo- Busisi with 3.2km length, Selender Bridge (1.03km) and Wami Bridge (513.5 km). “Generally, during this term, there is no district that did not get funds for constructing tarmac roads. All regional and district headquarters are now shining after construction of tarmac roads and installing street lights,” President Magufuli pointed out, adding: “Our pledge of connecting regions with tarmac roads has been implemented by a large percentage.” Works are still ongoing to connect the regions of Rukwa- Katavi, Katavi- Tabora, Singida- Tabora, Tabora-Kigoma and Kigoma-Kagera.