DODOMA Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DUWASA) yesterday announced that they would embark on drilling boreholes in the capital's suburbs in its attempt to improve water supply in the areas. Making the revelation here, the authority's Chief Executive Officer, Engineer David Palangyo, further told the ‘Daily News’ that out of five already drilled boreholes, two are capable of supplying 1500 to 2000 cubic metres every day. He further said DUWASA resolved to drill the boreholes as the only option to secure freshwater for the residents following great demand of the liquid in the semi-arid region. Official reports indicated that the authority planned to drill at least 10 boreholes to complement the main water grid. “We have noted in our drilling at Zuzu that we can get a lot of water from one borehole in comparison to a similar attempt in areas such as Ihumwa. This means we will drill three more boreholes in the area," pointed out Eng Palangyo. The first borehole has a capacity to supply 65 cubic metres in one hour. The CEO said after the Zuzu project, drilling of the boreholes would be commissioned in Ihumwa, Ntyuka, Miuji and Mwamanyika among others, adding that water demand in Dodoma is now projected to be above 100 million litres per day in comparison to the present 68 million litres in supply. Dodoma's central business district secures its water from three key areas along Makutupora aquifer, government city and the University of Dodoma. The Makutopora aquifer pumps nearly 61million litres while the University of Dodoma source and government city have a capacity to produce 2.4 million litres and 2.7million litres respectively. Reached for a comment, Sebastian Warioba, Head of Communication Unit at the authority told the 'Daily News' that experts from the authority were also working to try to identify additional areas to drill  water. According to the officer, underground water involves a chain of a process and the authority is working to ensure the process does not delay the water supply in the areas. He named other areas as including Michese, Kikombo, and Mwanga, adding that some additional processes like pump tests, water quality assurance and set up distribution centres are also still in pipeline.