DODOMA based Institute of Rural Development Planning (IRDP) in collaboration with UNDP is undertaking a major project that would construct a special fish storage cold room in Mwanza region. In an interview with the 'Daily News' here, IRDP's Rector, Professor Hozen Mayaya noted that the project will help fishermen in the Lake Zone to preserve their products in a professional manner. He further said that the storage room will be specifically designed and purposely built to ensure fish is preserved at the correct temperature(s) and provide a range of cold storage solutions, in attempts to address challenges of fishmonger in the area. “It will help fish to be stored at safe temperature(s), because preserved contents for a long time would still make fish fresh and secure good price in the market,” he said. Elaborating, the IRDP's Rector noted that the project was part of a series of diverse strategies being initiated by the state- owned institute to support the fifth phase government's efforts towards industrialization goal in the country, besides eradicating poverty from grassroots. However, he added that in complementing middle income status and industrial economies, the institute in partnership with other key development partners, citing them as the European Union (EU) and UNICEF had also implemented such projects in some parts of the country. “For instance, in Dodoma Region we have so far managed to open a leather processing factory and sunflower oil plant. Apart from stimulating the economic growth in the central zone corridor, the two factories are playing a great role in improving service delivery and creating direct and indirect job opportunities to youth,” he added. Professor Mayaya further detailed that the establishment of the Dodoma-based high learning institute was aimed at supporting the citizens, especially those in rural areas to address poverty in their midst. Commenting, IRDP Governing Council Chairperson, Professor Martha Qorro said that the Dodoma-based institute will continue to produce potential human resources and support in empowering rural communities to understand, grab, and using key economic potential available in their areas.