MEDIATORS and ARBITRATORS in the country have been urged to avoid all sorts of corruption during their work, to achieve successful outcomes, for the benefit of parties involved in commercial disputes, their businesses and the national economy.
Speaking during a three day course on mediation and arbitration, conducted by the National Construction Council (NCC), in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, two resource persons with experience in mediation and arbitration; Engineer Samwel Msita who is also an arbitrator and Advocate Rason Mbwambo said at different occasions that corruption was dangerous.
Msita warned that no successful mediation would be achieved at any point, if the mediator or arbitrator was too much in love with money.
He expressed that corruption has powers to turn out a good mediator or arbitrator into a silent killer, who would issue an impartial ruling to favor his interested part, hence extending conflict.
"Be in areas of procurement or elsewhere, keep corruption out of your reach. When resolving commercial disputes follow the guiding rules, otherwise you will not succeed,"Msita said.
On the other hand, Advocate Mbwambo insisted that any good mediator and, or arbitrator would think of keeping the misunderstanding parties in a state of understanding each other positively and work together as friends.
He said, "If a mediator or an arbitrator thinks of getting money or any favor from any disputed part or relatives, he or she must forget about ending a dispute, but extending enmity due to an unfair decision he would be forced to give.
He wanted mediators and arbitrator to think about the betterment of the country economy by sticking to mediation rules which would end up commercial disputes in a manner that conflicting parts continue to trade and pay government taxes.
"There is no need for a mediator or an arbitrator to prolong disputes for any reason. Be fair, follow rules and let it finish in a good manner that business between the conflicting parts goes on,"Mbwambo said.
The course which was the 14th to be conducted by NCC, was geared towards empowering participants from different professions with ability to resolve commercial disputes by using various methods, particularly alternative resolution.