STONE Town is the old part of Zanzibar City, built on a triangular peninsula of land on the western coast of the island. Its Swahili architecture incorporates elements of Arab, Persian, Indian, European and African styles. The best way to explore Stone Town is on foot because of its narrow streets. That way you can see a bewildering maze of streets and alleyways in the town which is regarded as Zanzibar’s historic heart. Two disabled young boys are always seen on the streets of the town in the afternoon begging for alms from Good Samaritans. They look younger than 15 and are placed in different parts of the town early in the morning and taken away in the evening. They look to be lacking the basic necessities of life which include shelter, clothing, and food. They also look to be relying on alms for their continued upkeep. These, they acquire by either wandering from place to place in search of good Samaritans or rooted to a particular spot where alms are dropped in the pan and outstretched hands. But who places them in the morning and take them in the evening is not known. Put it mildly, who helps them to get there in the morning is known. Worldwide, persons with disabilities who beg for part or all of their living are one of the most visible and least understood groups within the global disabled population. In many societies there is a strong association between poverty, disability and begging. If a person is born with a disability or becomes disabled, it is often assumed that most or all other options close and the only choice left to meet basic needs is to beg. It is further assumed that people who beg do so because they are trapped in a “cycle of poverty” and that begging is an activity or adaptation of last resort. The two young disabled boys in the Stone Town accept only money. They never take food or fruit. Beggars are common sight in streets. Some are found in public places near mosques or churches, markets or shopping areas. There are many reasons behind or why people resort to begging, but for children with disability are highly linked to Human ‘Trafficking In Persons (TiP). They are collected from their poor homes in upcountry villages and brought to urban areas to beg. During the meeting with stakeholders of people’s ‘well-being’ to mark the ‘World day Against Trafficking in Persons on July 30th of every year,’ officers from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Tanzania revealed that the business is done undercover. Ordinary meaning trafficking in persons is a trade that involves selling of human being for the purpose of exploiting his/her labour or services, and it is done through deception. A person is offered a false promise to get a job, or a false promise of marriage on the working conditions she will work. Kidnapping or abduction (when the victim cannot express her will), application for a posted job announcement or scholarship are other way used by ‘criminals’ in the business. But in response to the concern over human trafficking, the United Nations (UN) adopted the United Nations Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children in 2000. In celebrating the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons (TiP) this year, 2020, the IOM, UN-Migration Agency together with the Anti Trafficking in Persons’ (TiP) Secretariat organized a meeting with different stakeholders. The stakeholders were from the media; the ‘Ministry of Labour, Economic Empowerment, Elderly, Women and Children (MLEEWC), police, social welfare officers, religious leaders, IOM, Immigration, Judiciary, CSOs among others in Zanzibar. Major objective of the meetings was to raise awareness among stakeholders and separately with members of the media to effectively report and raise awareness among general public on TiP in Zanzibar. The media meeting was graced by Ms Maua Rajabdeputy Permanent Secretary in MLEEWC who said that media can help to investigate and expose victims of trafficking and the traffickers. “We have people mainly children with disabilities victims of TiP on streets and girls in commercial sex, some may be from villages in Tanzania mainland,” said Ms Rajab, Deputy Permanent Secretary in MLEEWC. The Chairman of Anti Trafficking in Persons Committee- Ministry of Home Affairs Mr Adatus Magere, said the international community, including IOM, considers Trafficking in Persons (TiP) as one of the gross violations of human rights. It is therefore of utmost importance to take actions and respond to it effectively. He said IOM Tanzania promotes prevention and response to TiP in line with the Anti- Trafficking in Persons Act, 2006, National Anti- Trafficking in Persons Action Plan (2018 – 2021) and the National Plan of Action to End Violence Against Women and Children (NPA VAWC) 2017 -2022. He explained that the National Anti-Trafficking in Persons Action Plan recognizes that, trafficking in persons affects the whole society. Therefore, efforts to combat and prevent it require support and cooperation of all sectors such as government ministries, departments and agencies, civil society organizations, international organizations and the media. The ‘Action Plan’ also mentions that, “public awareness raising is one of the most important strategies for preventing Trafficking in Persons because it creates an informed, responsible and responsive public,” he said. the plans of sea bridges and said that would make life easier for the people and help to boost trade and other economic activities in their communities. “If there are plans for a bridge will be very good. It is normally dangerous to cross when the weather is not good.” Ms Mtumwa Khatib Hassan, a mother who gave birth in a small boat last year while crossing from Tumbatu to hospital in Mkokotoni said lack of reliable transport from Islets to Unguja or Pemba makes it difficult for pregnant women to access pre-natal care in the two big Islands with advanced health services. She said makeshift vessels often put their lives at risk when they are rushed to hospital to deliver and recalled her own ordeal when she was being rushed to hospital in Unguja as approached her due day. “My life was at risk. Normally pregnant mothers are at risk because reliable health facilities are not in Tumbatu. I think having Sea Bridge will solve travel problems.” The major economic activities in the small islands include fishing and small farming, and trade which makes a reliable means of transport necessary. The Director of Communications in Zanzibar State House, Mr Hassan Khatib Hasan says connecting islets with bridges from the main islands, Unguja and Pemba is among priorities considered in the vision 2050. “We need to move forward faster,” he said. He mentioned other areas for the vision as deep sea fishing and blue economy projects, construction of a modern stadium and new playgrounds for other types of sports like table tennis, basketball and squash. Other areas for consideration include promotion of public private partnership to leverage private investments, innovative agriculture and agribusiness and harmonization of Financed through the project Africa Regional Migration Programme Phase X East and Horn of Africa funded by the State Department Bureau of Population Refugees and Migration (BPRM) of the United States of America (USA), the meetings in Zanzibar were in full alignment with IOM’s participation in the United Nations (UN) Joint Programmes… …Under the Pillar “Ending Violence Against Women and Children in the United Republic of Tanzania, which is under the framework of the United Nations Development Assistance Plan II (UNDAP -2) 2017-2021.” Mr Magere said that the IOM has recorded promising achievements, for example between 2016 and June this year (2020), Court conviction of 61 people found guilty of ‘trafficking in Persons’, while 12 cases are progressing, and about 557 people have been saved from trafficking, “But concerted efforts remains crucial in combating TiP.” However, despite the ongoing successes, he said, there are challenges facing the IOM Secretariat to implement its activities smoothly, which include shortage of funds and equipment, lack of special funds to support victims of trafficking, and shortage of skilled labour. The challenges are being addressed gradually by the Home affairs Ministry, he said. According to Dr Qasim Sufi, IOM Chief of Mission (CoM) to the United Republic of Tanzania IOM supports the direct and specialized assistance to victims of trafficking including shelter assistance, capacity-building to frontline workers, community dialogues and awareness-raising activities. He says that IOM stands ready to support the efforts of the Anti-Trafficking Committee in its fight against this terrible crime in the country, as stakeholders discussed ‘realities, Challenges, and opportunities in countering trafficking in persons, and Plan for coordinating efforts to effectively combat TiP in Zanzibar.’ Ms Halima Sonda from the IOM says that media’s vigilance helps keep the public informed and engaged, and that people should be informed about the work of the organization which include provision of direct services: they assist victims by providing psychological support and linking them to appropriate service agencies. IOM authorities also take ‘Policy development’ on board: they influence national policies, and Exposing failures by governments to discharge their international obligations to respond to trafficking and thereby creating public pressure to improve their performance. Further IOM holds the international community to account for their responsibilities to establish and fund a coordinated and comprehensive response to trafficking in persons, and affirming strong performances and achievements by governments and civil society through positive statements. Creating public intolerance to the crime and educating the public as to the part they can play in resisting it; and reporting arrests, prosecutions and convictions of traffickers and corrupt officials to assist in creating criminal deterrence. Mr Separatus Fella- Secretary, Anti Trafficking in Persons Secretariat- Ministry of Home Affairs mentioned core principles of ethical reporting TiP: Accuracy and fact-based reporting, avoid malicious lies, fake news and unverified information. He urged journalists to act according to own conscience and refuse to be used for political or other vested interests. “Impartiality and fairness are important, remember to tell all sides of the story, and in particular, give voice to the victims and survivors of the trauma of trafficking. Tell the true story and do no harm.”