CCM presidential flag-bearer Dr John Magufuli has promised to set up a mineral trading centre at Misigiri area, in Singida Region, if re-elected. The move aims at simplifying trading of minerals being extracted by small scale miners at the Misigiri in Iramba District, in continued efforts to tackle the challenges in the area. The incumbent President made the promise yesterday, when he was on his way to Nzega District, Tabora Region to address a campaign rally ahead of the General Election slated for October 28, this year. “The government will continue to work on challenges facing the mining sector and a lot has been done already, for it to contribute to the economic growth of the country and individuals,” he said. Already, the government through the Ministry of Minerals has established mineral trading centres in various places in the country, a move that to large extent supported the country to curb smuggling of the precious metals. “Setting up the mineral trading centre here will be among the top priorities of the government and this must be done as soon as possible,” he said. On his way to Nzega, Dr Magufuli stopped at Igunga District in Tabora Region where he also reiterated his promise that aimed at improving livelihood of small scale miners. His statement in Igunga came after he received a complaint from one of the small scale miners. He instructed the Manonga constituent CCM candidate Mr Seif Gulamali, to work on the concern. “The government would continue to work on challenges facing small scale miners across the country,” he insisted. Dr Magufuli also asked the Igunga parliamentary candidate Mr Nicholaus Ngassa once elected to focus on addressing challenges facing his people as their concerns had been left unattended for a long time. Despite the fact that Mr Ngassa didn’t lead in the primaries he was approved by the CCM Central Committee (CC), as the party’s flag-bearer because he is capable of pushing forward development agenda, said the President. “I’m also asking the District Commissioner (DC) John Mwaipopo and District Executive Director (DED) Revocatus Kuuli to change their ways, and ensure they work for the interest of the people,” he said before swearing in the party’s candidates for councillor ship posts that they would work hard once elected. Earlier on the day, the Iramba West parliamentary candidate Dr Mwigulu Nchemba commended Dr Magufuli for a number of projects ranging from infrastructural, health, education, water and electricity in his constituency for the past five years. “The constituency has benefited a lot, more projects are coming, we are grateful that we are going to benefit from Lake Victoria water project that initially was planned to stop in Igunga, but Dr Magufuli instructed it to be brought to Dodoma hence a move that would also benefit Iramba residents,” he said. When he stopped at Tinde area, Dr Magufuli promised to ensure adequate supply of water and electricity to all villages when elected for the second time. “Water project tapped from Lake Victoria has reached Igunga, so the next task will be supplying it to households in all areas that the project has passed through,” he said, asking Tinde residents to vote for CCM candidates, saying they are capable of bringing development.