YES, we are in the thick of the general election campaigns. To entice us to attend rallies, some hopefuls are promising us food, to our fill. Others have invested in entertainment. By the time we are through with this phase, all tricks of the game will have been tried to convince us to turn up, come voting day, to actually cast our vote as prescribed to avoid our ballot paper losing its validity and of course to vote for the candidate of our choice. There seems to be concern with some of the happenings at the campaign rallies and this prompted the editor of the authoritative daily broadsheet to pen an editorial titled: “Be patriotic before heckling, hurling stones in campaigns” (September 8-14, p. 6). The writer of the editorial has a strong message for us, citizens: “Tanzanians want peace more than anything else, because politicians come and go with their sweet words. They will promise to implement their party’s manifestoes, right, some will promise big and small things, just to get votes, but the major thing as a voter, is to think of peace first”. He goes on: “As these politicians crisscross the country looking for votes, it is the responsibility of all people: “to see INTO it that the campaigns remain peaceful”. Now, instead of “to see INTO it” I would go for “to see TO it” which means to be careful or certain to do something; make certain of something”. The writer of the editorial wants us to make certain that the campaigns remain peaceful. The writer emphasizes his point further: “Peace and security is an essential factor OF human life”. I hesitate to combine “peace and security” into one phenomenon since you could have one without the other. So I would consider them separate entities and rewrite the sentence to reflect this: “Peace and security ARE essential factors FOR human life”. “A peaceful and secure environment is critical TO every society since it affects all aspects of social and economic development in the country, and is a NECESSARY SIN-QUA-NON to the realisation of human rights”. The phrase “sin-qua-non” does not exist. It is mis-spelt. “Sin” should not be in it but it is there perhaps because the writer considered heckling and stone hurling at political rallies, a sin. A sin is defined as an immoral act considered to be a transgression against divine law. “Though shalt not sin”, the Scriptures tell us. And we all know what will happen to all those who die in sin. They cannot taste the “pepo”. The phrase, when correctly spelt is “sinequa- non”. There is no sin there. So, what does “sine-qua-non” mean? It is from Latin literally meaning: “without which not”. In common usage it means: “an essential condition; a thing that is absolutely necessary”. I guess you can now see where I am driving to. The writer should not have said: “A necessary sin-qua-non” for two reasons. One, the phrase “sin-qua-non” does not exist, and, two, after the phrase had been corrected into “sine-qua-non”, the use of word “necessary”, was unnecessary. “Sine-qua-non” is self-sufficient. Since it means “a necessary condition”, the use of the word “necessary is tautological, which means a needless repetition of an idea especially in words. Like, for example, where you write of “a widow woman”, when you know very well that a widow is a woman who has lost her husband. So, armed with the above explanation, I feel confident to rewrite the sentence into: “A peaceful and secure environment is critical FOR every society since it affects all aspects of social and economic development in the country, and is a SINE-QUA-NON for the realization of human rights”. (I have tossed ‘necessary’ out of the window). So do go to the rallies, but heed the writer’s advice. Be patient, even if you do not savour what is being said, for: “No one can please all the people ‘all the times’, whoops! ‘all the time’”. lusuggakironde@gmail.com