EXPORT performance of agricultural commodities last year was extremely beyond normal, many of produce exports grew at the pace that was higher and above 5 year growth average. Minerals, which have been leading the exports pack for years, grew at 11 per cent, way below oil seeds exports (73 per cent), coffee, tea, mate and spices (16 per cent), pulses (97 per cent) and the dominant cereals (119 per cent). Conversely, a 5 year growth rate depicts a little more different picture from what one year growth tried to do. With an exception to cereals, nearly the group of agricultural commodities registered a negative growth rate. A probable reason behind this divergence – which forms the very basis of this topic – stands out to be the unpredictability of various global markets which feeds on its instability. The latter argument is buttressed by cereals’ dominance in the regional market as opposed to other commodities that largely depends on overseas consumption pattern. And if there is anything we have consistently protected for a very long time – which needs our unreserved credit – is the markets offered by countries at our door steps. On the other hand, overseas market have been tricky and a lot more disturbing, making it hard to keep, especially when are kept in comparison to markets in the region. There are so many factors behind this display one can try to pinpoint, but we will try to discuss a few of them, such as; distance, consistent supply, standards and duties. Distance Always distance matters on issues of trade. It is easy for a trader in Arusha to export maize to Nairobi market, or a car maker in Texas finds smooth path when trying to reach buyers in Mexico. Pertaining to it are cost effectiveness, similarity in culture between people across the border and commonness of rules governing trade. Nonetheless, there is little that one can do to change this factor as distance can neither be shortened nor elongated. For any business acumen, to compete with similar suppliers closer to your market, will reduce other costs or if bold enough will increase innovation which will attract a final consumer into paying a premium price to get that additional taste. Standards There are involuntary standards (put in place by governments) and voluntary standards (required by private sector). Whoever trying to reach overseas markets have to adhere to those standards. Well, in trying to reach advanced economy markets, one needs to know that there are markets whose standards are so high making accessibility difficult, while others have assumed a relaxed posture nearly close to ours. For instance, Tanzania’s Sesame seeds’ leading markets are China, South Korea and Japan. But experience from traders shows that accessing China market is easier than the rest of the mentioned. However, every tonnage that find its way to South Korea receives a higher price than one sold to China. Being heavily dependent on one market contributes to the reasons for low growth rate in the past five years span. It is not always easy to conform to higher requirements, as takes huge investment to qualify, especially when the exercise is undertaken by an individual company. Egyptian market is a very interesting one, however, much clean, sesame seeds which are not de-husked do not find smooth passage compared to other markets. To date, there is no one in Tanzania who has installed such a technology, the demon behind this is the expensiveness of the technology itself. Consistency in supply Many of our products exported to overseas markets do not reach final consumers directly, they usually go through a chain of players in between. Leading importers of our commodities are processors. For a processor to rely on your product needs to be ensured of availability throughout the demand cycle. It is at this point that countries like Canada, Argentina and Brazil overtakes us whenever a question of market dominance pops up. They are sure of flooding an importer with quantities is in need of. The challenge at hand is on how to escape a vicious cycle of low supply. That is, we produce little because of low capital, which feeds on little demand that is again a result of unstable market which is wary of our low supply. To sum up, stability of our exports is a function of number of factors that truly requires closer attention, as old English maxim says, “devil is in the details”.