THE Vodacom Premier League is on and although it is too early to make any assessment of this season’s competition, but after all teams played their first matches there are already signs there are better teams than that of the league we had last season. Teams are playing better passes and generally we have better players than we had last season. But Tanzania’s main problem that has been around for many years, scoring, is still rearing its ugly head. I’m saying the scoring problem is still around because in 1980s we had the same problem and at one time, the national coaching association approached the then minister responsible for sports, one, Fatuma Said Ally and told her that the problem lay in the country’s lack of coaches who train players in scoring. The then director of sports in the ministry, Jenerali Ulimwengu, was quick to tell the good minister that what the coaches had just told her was nothing but a pack of lies. He told the minister that scoring had a lot to do with passing. “It players cannot thread correct passes to their colleagues, they cannot score. Because scoring is nothing but passes that are not intended for the goalkeeper,” the journalist-cum-lawyer said. And the foregoing is exactly what is going on in the on-going league. Shots that are intended to go into the net are going straight to goalkeepers. Those shots, in the words of Jenerali Ulimwengu in 1980s are passes. But if they go straight to goalkeepers instead of going straight into the net then we have a big problem in our passing game. Literally all players in the ongoing league can thread one, two three passes to their colleagues but the problem is that they cannot do that for a minute or two. And the fact that they cannot sustain their passes we should not expect our players to be good in scoring. Take the Young Africans, Prisons and the Simba, Namungo pairing as a case in point. The four teams threaded passes. But the passes were not good enough in that they could not sustain them long enough to bring them fruition on the game and that explains the dearth of goals earned. Although Simba finally won the match but the results could have been a goalful of draws had both teams made good use of the many chances that came their way. The same thing could be said about the Young Africans, Prisons pair. The former missed a lot of scoring chances and Deus Kaseke was particularly awful missing numerous scoring opportunities. What is the solution to this scoring problem? Coaches should spend more time drilling their players in threading, correctly, passes. They need to spend more time in ball control and the passing game in order to fine-tune their players into threading correct passes which can later become useful when it comes to scoring goals. In fact, our players problem in the passing game can also be noted when it comes to taking corner kicks. More often than not, the kicks are directed straight to the goal where goalkeepers are best placed to pick up the balls. And that has got to do with passing problem. Corner kick takers need to direct their balls straight to the players who are capable of heading the balls straight into the yawning net. Had we had right corner kicks, given the high number of corner kicks produced in one match, our teams could have scored many goals. Unfortunately, our corner kicks are not good enough. And they are not good enough because they are not directed to the intended targets and the end result is that they all end up in the hands of goalkeepers instead of flowing into the back of the net. Therefore coaches need to work extremely hard on their players’ passing game. They should keep on passing for hours on end and drill them in shooting. They need to do that repeatedly because the bulk of their local players have not gone through soccer academies where children are taught correct use of their feet on the ball. Children in soccer academies don’t spend many hours learning ball control, passing and how to use, differently, their legs on the ball for nothing. Therefore having done that from their tender age for many hours by the time they reach 15 they pass and shoot instinctively. But it is quite different for players who have not gone through such a system, hence the dire need for coaches to spend more time on the passing game during their practice sessions. We all enjoy watching the English Premier League and others in Europe simply because most of the players in such league have gone through soccer academies. That explains the ease with which players in such top flight league execute their passes and the way they score goals. There is a Kiswahili saying which runs; Usione vinaelea Vimeundwa which can simply be translated as any good thing you come across, somebody has worked hard on it. If our teams want to score as many goals as possible, coaches have no option, but to work extremely hard on their players, particularly, in the passing game. We have all noted that the few foreign players we have are good not only in the passing game, but also in scoring. Unlike most of our players, these foreign players have gone through soccer academies back home. That is why they are playing the way they do. We now have the answer. The proverbial goal is in our respective courts.