LIONS Academy maintained their perfect run in the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) Development league after defeating Upanga Warriors by three wickets at the Leaders Club oval in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Lions won the toss and elected to bowl in the 40 overs game that ended with Lions registering 157 against 151 runs earned by their opponents. The Lions batsman Salum Jumbe emerged the match hero after hitting 50 runs from 58 balls. He was indeed impressive as he played well and not out. Three batsmen were left at the bench without batting Abdullah Imtiyaz, Abdulrazak Sameer and Amaan Samer. Abdullah Jabiri from Upanga performed well too when he hit 38 runs from 31 balls, but his performance was not enough to enable his team win the game. With these results Lions Academy are fixed at the top of the log after collecting six points from four games they have played so far. They have won three and lost one, registering 1.40 net runs rate. Lions lost a single game against Kinondoni Development by three wickets, where Aahil Jasani sparkled as the game star after hitting 26 runs in 60 balls. Kinondoni Development are placed second with four points, and parade 1.11 net runs rate. Following yesterday’s results, Upanga Warriors are on the third place after bagging two points from three games. They have won one and lost two, registering 1.11 net runs rate. Ilala Boys are tied in points with Upanga and have played three games and won once; and so, registered -0.16 net run rates. At the bottom are TCA Women who have not collected any point and have a net run rate of -5.11. The league played in 40-over format, takes place every Saturday and involves five teams whereas four teams are men’s and one a women side. The league was launched by TCA with a purpose of strengthening the U-19 and women squads ahead of the forthcoming international level tournaments. The youth squad will be playing in the International Cricket Council (ICC) Under-19 African Qualifier Division 2, scheduled to take place in Dar es Salaam. Meanwhile, the Kazim Nasser Memorial League T50 league for Division A continues today at Dar Gymkhana oval. The game will take place at 9:00 am in the morning where Aces will face Aga Khan Sports Club Cricket Team (AKSC).