MORE than 8,000 industries in the major, medium, small and micro categories were set up, as direct employment doubled over the past five years, Chief Secretary, Ambassador John Kijazi, has announced. Officiating at the 17th- Annual Engineers Day, Ambassador Kijazi challenged the engineers to be innovative, act professionally and embrace technological advancements for tangible contribution to national economic development. The chief secretary said that over the past five years as the government geared towards industrial economic status, a number of successes have been attained, whereby 201 major industries were set up, while 460 were medium, 3,406 small, and the rest, 4,410, are in the micro categories. He said the move had been a catalyst in the creation of direct employment opportunities, which doubled from 254,786 in 2015 to 482,601 currently. “Industrial development also created a quantitative number of indirect employment during the same period, as more business and service opportunities were availed. The majority benefitted and in so doing, improved socioeconomic welfare,” Ambassador Kijazi said. The meeting attended by 3,700 engineers was trading under the theme “4th Industrial Revolution towards achieving SDGs: Challenges and Opportunities for Engineers.” Ambassador Kijazi challenged the engineers to live up to the expectations of this theme. The chief secretary said the 29,019 registered engineers countrywide were not enough to undertake the number of projects in the industrialisation drive and with the middle income economy status already attained, more engineers are needed to cope with the market demand. He told the Engineers Registration Board (ERB) that much as they were doing well in the industry, they should not spare colleagues who violated the professional code of conduct. Ambassador Kijazi said that when undertaking their duties, engineers must be guided by professionalism, patriotism and code of conduct as the government works around the clock to ensure they engage local engineers in major projects. Furthermore, he stressed the need for investing more in technology, because the changing technological patterns in the industry needed improvements and equipment that matched the demand. He advised them to come up with innovations and use technologies that match the local environment, instead of relying on imported technologies, most of which, he said were very expensive. The chief secretary said that even the government, through the e-Government Authority (eGA), had come up with a number of applications, shunning the dependency from the application vendors, which are unduly expensive. On his part, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Arch Elius Mwakalinga, challenged the engineers to create a network through which, they would share experience, challenges and best practices. He said they should stick to professionalism and accountability so that they bring the dream of industrial revolution a reality, as the government is working on the conducive environment for them to prosper. ERB Chairman, Prof Ninatubu Lema, underscored the need for effective utilisation of technology and adherence to professionalism, which requires a change of mindset. He stressed the need for engineering solutions in their projects, saying he was impressed by the increasing number of women in the industry.