THE United Republic of Tanznaia was formed on 26 April 1964 by merging two independed states, the Republic of Tanganyika and the People’s Republic of Zanzibar that signed the union agreements in 1964, hence formation of a full fledged  country, Tanzania. The coonstitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977 has listed 22 union issues. This article will take you through all issues that have been identified as far as the union is concerned. 1.The constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania Before union, there were two two independent states, the Republic of Tanganyika which was formed in 1962 after the country got independence on 9 December 1961 and the People’s Republic of Zanzibar that was formed after the Revolution of January 12 in 1964. Both countries had its full sovereignity that incude clear territories, constitution, government and they were  running all affairs independently. As of now, in the United Republic of Tanzania there are two contitutions one for the United Repubic of Tanzania  that has covered all union and non union affairs, while Zanzibar has its own constitution of 1984 that has been covered by non union affairs for the Tanzania Zanzibar. Since it was formed in 1977, the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania has been ammemded 14 times, purposely to enable it match with varrious changes  and advancements taking place in the country so that to meet the demand of the general public. 2.Foreign Affairs Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation is the one responsible for coordinating and supervising all international affairs including union and non union affairs on behalf of the government. The ministry has various roles that include representing Tanzania internationally, conducts diplomacy, creates foreign policy and operate its diplomatic missions abroad. The ministry also has the responsibility of informing the public on the progress, opportunities and prospects of East African Community integration process as well as working with other ministries within the Tanzania government as well as taking care of all international contracts. In so doing, the government has its foreign mission in abroad. Right now, the focus has been made on promotion economic diplomacy that involves putting in place sustainable strategies of attracting more investors, improving tourism and business for the sake of improving the economy and fuel development in the country. Moreover, due to the importance of Swahili language, the member states of East African Community (EAC) agreed to establish the commission of Kiswahili for the sake of promoting the language in the region. Headquarters of the commission are in Zanzibar. Both parts of the union have been actively participating in the countries representations including business forums, investments and all important international meetings. A guideline on the participation of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar in the various International and regional issues was issued on 21 June 2019. The guideline has considered all international and regional areas, opportunities for higher education learning and trainings in abroad as well as mobilization of funds from donors and loans for financing various development projects. 3.Safety and Security This has  continued to be implememted  as part pof union affairs where as  all security forces  have contiued to protect the country  as actively participating in social activities. Youth  from both parts of the union are provided with equal chances of joining  security forces inclusing varrious training.  4.Police Force Indeed, the police force  is the one responsible of  ensuring peace and tranquility of the country  and its people, and that laws of the land are respected and observed accordingly. From establihment of the unuion in 1964 todate, the Police force has dine a great job not only on maintaining peace but also cooperating with the general public on other development activities. 5.Mandate on issues related to thedecralation of State pof Immergency Article  5(1)  of the State of Imergency Act of 1986  gives powes to President of the United Republic of Tanzania t Proclaim  the state of immergency, and he may delegate the powers to the president of the Revolutinary Governemnt of Zanzibar, moreover, the Regional and District Commisioners have been empowerd to do the same in their respective areas odf administration. 6.Citizenship Tanzania citizenship is governed by the Tanzania Citizenship Act, number 6 of 1995 that was formed to replace various laws on citizenship in the United Republic of Tanzania that brought confusion on citizenship in the country. For a long time since establishment  of the Union, identification of Tanzanians and non citizen were conducted by using travelling doccuments (Passports), birth and death certificates, local goverment (ten house cell system). On 30 July 2008, the government forms the National Identification authority (NIDA) under the presidential special certificate with government gazette number 122. The authority was mandated to register and issue secured national I’d cards to Citizen, Legal Residents and Refugees who are 18 years and above. It also manages national ID database, data stored in NIDA is then shared by stakeholders 7. Immigration In the year 1995 the law that was supervising immigrating services in Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar were deleted paving the way for the establishment of Immigration Act number 7 of 1995 with its regulations of 1997. Again, the laws that were overseeing all citizenships were merged and became Citizenship act number 6 of 1995 with their regulations of 1997. For the sake of improving the passport services, the government formed the Tanzania Passport and Travel document Act Number 42 with the regulations of 2004. The immigration department has continued to implement its responsibilities by controlling the entry and departure of people from and to the country, regulate residence permits of foreigners in the country according to the law And issue passport to all qualifying citizens It has also been regulating applications of residence permits in Tanzania for foreigners living in the country. The amendments have involved use of advanced technology on collection and strategy of details of all arrivals, visas issuance to all foreigners coming to Tanzania as well as issuance of passports. 8.Loans and Trade Volume with other countries The govenrment of the Unutd Republic iof Tanzznia is communicating with other developent partners and stakeholders to secire soft loans to impmeneting varrious development projects , for the present arrangement the govenment of Zanzbar can negotiate with development partners directly for the sake of getting the fund t be spent on the same purpose. By 2009, the Board of External Trade (BET)  that was established  by the Board of External Trade Act article  155  for the other side, it was  used in coordinating, supervising  improvement of business of the Tanzanian government to abroad and enhance influx of foreign business  as well as promoting foreign business by preparations and participation in various international trade fares  within and outside the country. BET was replaced by the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (Tantrade) which was formed by the Act number 4 of 2009. In a continued effort to strengthen union affairs especially business, the government has established the Tantrade offices in Zanzibar so that to being services close to the people. This has taken part on promotion of business and investment opportunities available in the country including tourism. Same move is done by Tanzania’s embassy to abroad. Due to various efforts on marketing Tanzania to abroad, Tanzania’s export has been increasing every year. 9.Public Services in the United Republic The public services Act number 8 of 2002 with its regurations of 2003 has put in place open guidance on employments in the public sector, removing all the challenges that were present in the past. The union governemnt has been issuing equal empoloyment opportunities  for candidates from both parts of the union  as long as they have all the qualificatins including education and experience. About the recruitment i the union institutions, the long time guidance that requres 79  per cent from mainland and 21 per cent From Zanzibar has been observed  according to the government notice of 10 May 2013. 10.Revenue colletions  from private individuals,  institutions,custioms duties and other related taxes. Customs duty is a tax which is collected on all imports. In order to have a good system for revenue collection, for the development of all Tanzanians it was decided that the customs duty which is collected in Zanzibar must be submitted to the Treasurry of the  Revolutionary Government Zanzibar. The Customs department is responsible for regulating the import and export of foreign trade data as well as the preparation of Foreign Trade Stastistics in accordance with the Act. 9 of 1977. 11.Port and all affairs relating to the Air transport, Posta and tellecommunication Marine transport has improved to allow priovate individuals  use the modern equipments ship peolple from Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Zanzibar and Pemba. Also telecommunication has continued to be improved in both parts of the union including the use of mobile phone as thetelecom companies are operating on both parts without any obstacle 12.Issues related to money and coins for varrious paymets, banks and oversight of foreign currencies Before union,  all issues  related to currency  were managed by the East African Currency Board that was established in 1919 to supply and oversee the currency of British colonies in British East Africa, and other counties such as Yemen, Somalia and Zanzibar. The board was replaced by the eatablishement of country’s independed central banks that saw each country statted using their own currencies, where by Tanganyika ans Zanzibar agreed to start sharing the currency hence it was put in the list of unnion matters. The government then formed central bank which is the Bank of Tanzania (BOT) through the Banks Act of 1965. Primary function of the central bank is to prapare the financial policy aimed at keeoing the value of miney and controll the inflation for the growth of the economy. Structurally,  the  BoT is made of staffs from both parts of the union and it has also built its branch in Zanzibar for the sake of bringing services close to the people, also Zanzibar is continuing to get 4.5 per cent of the profit  obtained from the operations of the central bank. 13.Industrial licenses and Statistics. This is under the ministry of Industry and Trade of the United Republic of Tanzania and the coordinator of industries and the Bussiness  Registration and Lisencing Agency (BRELA). BRELA works in both part of the union and for the case of Zanzibar, it has been there by giving professional advice everynow and then when needed. The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar has two board members in Brela’s board of directors. 14. Higher Education According to the Act number 25 of 1978 , Higher education is the training  issued after  completion training at  advacned certificate of secondary education (ACSEE) form six level or any other couse that is equivakent to that,  a graduate of hifger education training receives bachelor degree aor adcabced  diploma. Higher education was aming the areas of priority in the list if union affairs, by then Zanibar had no higher education college while Tanganyika had the University of Dar es Salaam that was established in october 1961 as the associate college of the University of London, in England. This forced Tanzanians to look for higher education training in outside the country such as the Makerere University in (Uganda), Royal Technical College, (Kenya) while few flew to Europe, India and South Africa. In 1963 the University of Dar es Salaam joined Makerere University and Royal Nairobi University and formed the University of East Africa. By considering the importance of having native experts in various professionals and capacity building in the country, on 1967 the government decided to include higher education as among issues of the union, and with effect from 1July, 1970 The University of Dar es Salaam became fully fledged. It started with 1283 students after the disintegration of the University of East Africa in 1970. Between 1970 and 1980 number of universities increased where by the Institute of Development 1972 that was upgraded to Mzumbe University in 2001. Others are the Sokoine University of Agriculture 1984, University of Dodoma 2006 and for the Zanzibar part there s the State University of Zanzibar that was formed in 2001. In 2005, the government established the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) that is managed to oversee the quality of education, learning environments, buildings, curriculums, teachers and examination procedures. Since its establishment, the admission of students to join universities from both parts of the union has been done through Central Admission System (CAS) of the TCU.   15.Natural Fuels, including Crude Fuel and Petroleum Oil and Other Fuels or Products, and Natural Gas These were added into the list of union matters in 1968. On the Mainland Tanzania, the sectors are supervised by the Ministry of Energy through the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation  (TPDC)  that was established under the Petroleum Chapter 392 (The Petroleum Conservation Act, Cap 392) and the Tanzania Petroleum Exploration and Production Act, Cap 17). In Zanzibar, petroleum is managed by the Ministry of Land, Housing, Water and Energy. There was a concern on how to fairly distribute revenue for oil and natural gas resources when available. The two governments hired AUPEC 39 company from England based advisor to provide expert advice on the allocation of such resources to the united states. AUPEC Company completed the task and submitted proposals to our two governments. Laws have been made including the SMT Oil Act 2015 which repealed the old law, the Exploration and Production Act Chapter 328 and gave Zanzibar mandate to establish board to control oil and gas. Zanzibar enacted its Oil and Natural Gas Act in 2016. 16.National Examination Council of Tanznaia (NECTA) with all its activities The supervision of the examination in secodanry schools is performed by Necta which is the union body. Necta was established by the National Examination Council of Tanzania Act chapter number 107 after the withdrawal of Zanzibar from the East Africa Examination board in 1970, and the Mainland Tanzania in 1971. Due to that, both governments continued to cooperate on examination issues untill 1977 when the sector was officialy included in the list of union affairs. The body is under the ministry of Education, Sciece and Technology  of the United Republic of Tanzania. The main function of Necta include to conduct examinations for, and to grant, diplomas, certificates and other awards of the council an formulate examinations policy in accordance with the principles of eradication for self reliance and education training policy. Examns for form three students are made by the government of Zanzibar. Necta is givernnmeed by the board of directors  that has mabers from Zanibar. It also employs staffs from both parts of the union. 17.Aviation Sector Various steps have been taken to strengthen the aviation industry including upgrading the Zanzibar Airport, opening a sub-aviation office of the Zanzibar Aviation Authority (ZAA) and allowing private organizations to operate the travel and transportation business. In addition, issues of supervision, regulation, the transport policy and aviation have continued to be supervised and coordinated by the union government. 18. Research Research issues are managed and coordinated by the National Science and Technology Commission (NSTC) which was established in accordance with Law No 7 of 1986 which also applies to Zanzibar. The Commission's board of management is consisted of consists of members from both sides of the Union. 19. Weather Forecast This is managed and coordinated by the Climate Authority under the Ministry of Infrastructure of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania. The Collaboration between the Zanzibar Authority Offices and Mainland Tanzania is good. 20. Statistics Each side of the United Republic has its own Law and Department to regulate Statistical activities, however at the time of the census the two departments are required to undertake the work together. 21. The Court of Appeal of the United Republic The Court of Appeal of the United Republic hears cases on all issues except cases arising from Islamic religious matters decided on Zanzibar. The Court of Appeal has seven zones across Tanzania which are: - Dar es Salaam (Headquarters), Arusha, Dodoma, Zanzibar, Mbeya, Mwanza and Tanga. 22. Registration of political parties and related matters Following the Government's decision to establish multi-party system in 1992 and the establishment of the Political Parties Act, Chapter 258, the issue of registration of political parties was listed among the Union Affairs. Once the multi-party system was established, the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties was officially established in accordance with the Political Parties Act which came into effect on July 1, 1992. To date, 2020 a total number of Political parties 21 have been registered and fully engaged in various political matters in the country. The Office of the Registrar of Parties has opened sub-offices in Zanzibar to improve efficiency in serving political parties on both side of the Union. Conclusion Careful oversight of the implementation of the Union is guaranteed by the achievements including the strengthening of nationalism and unity, peace and stability and the well-being of the people as a result of the economic growth of the Union. Also, the implementation of the Union pursuant to the constitution and laws of the United Republic of Tanzania and the non-union goes in line with the plans, policies, programs and development strategies that both governments set for the development of Tanzanians. 