PROMINENT people on Tuesday eulogized former Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Chairman, Mr Salum Shamte, who died on Monday while receiving treatment at the Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) in Dar es Salaam. Mourners paid their last respects and prayed for his body at his home in Mbweni area, before it was taken to the Mamuur Mosque at Upanga area for final prayers and burial at the Kisutu Cemeteries in the city. Among the mourners, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Innocent B ashungwa said the government would miss his contribution that was adding value and growth to the private sector locally. However, he said that the government would maintain cooperation with the private sector as he wished, adding that any plan he initiated benefit players in the industry and the country as a whole. “I knew him in person and all titles he held including being a leader of the private sector and as an investor in our country… he did a lot during his lifetime, let’s honour his role and contributions in the growth and development of our own private sector,” said the Minister. Elaborating, he said the late Shamte dedicated most of his time on sharing his experience and expertise in agriculture to help the government implement its policies including industrialization of agriculture. On his part, TPSF Executive Secretary, Godfrey Simbeye, eulogized him as a hardworking key person, who ensured that his mission to improve the private sector dates back to 1998, as one of the founder members. “He was great and a lovely person, he was among the 33 people who signed papers that established TPSF some 22 years back, and since then, he never left the private sector, anyway, this is a big blow for us and we’ll greatly miss him,” he said amid sobs. The late Shamte joined TPSF B oard of Directors in 20 0 8 before ascending to serve as its vice chairman between 20 13 and 2 0 18 . In 2 0 18 , he was appointed the Chairman taking over from the late Dr Reginald Mengi. He also happened to serve as the Vice Chairman of the East Africa B usiness Council (EAB C), and Katani L imited as Managing Director, Southern African Development Community as well as Southern African Confederation of Agricultural Unions (SACAU) as B usiness Council Chairman. Feeling greatly moved, Foundation for Civil Society (FCS) Executive Director, Francis Kiwanga and Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) official, Evarist Maembe said they would remember him for unconditional love to improve relations between the government and private sector.