MEMBERS of the Zanzibar National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC) has urged the government to include at least one member from the private sector in the national anticoronavirus committee. The call was made by the ZNCC President Taufiq Salum Turkey during the handing over ceremony of food items and sanitary supplies worth 100m/- to State Minister Mohamed Aboud Mohamed. “We have been doing a lot to support the development of our country; therefore think about including at least a member in the task force or national anti-coronavirus committee,” Mr Turkey remarked. The contributors include Bakhressa Group that donated 6,000 bottles of drinking water, Subhash Patel – Motisun Group that donated water tanks, Oryx that offered free use of domestic gas for hospital laundry, an isolation centre for cooking patients’ food and Aga Khan Hospital that offered isolation facilities at Aga khan Hospital. Others are Multi-Color Printers Ltd (cartons of toilet rolls and cartons of water worth 1.5m), Advent Construction (heavy trucks for transport and logistics for two months), Amsons Group & Camel Oil (18 drums of sanitizers), and Zanzibar Sugar Factory Ltd (several bags of sugar). Other donors were Brazilian envoy Antonio Cesar (hand sanitisers, surgical and examination gloves, face masks and bedsheets) and Virgo Group (sugar, water, washing powder), and Branding Tanzania (awareness campaign). A similar call was made by the National chairman of the CHADEMA party elders council Mr Hashim Juma Issa who said that it was important for the government to ensure that “We act together during times of crises like we are currently facing. An elderly person should be a member of the coronavirus task force.” He added: “Political differences should not in any way divide us at this time of the war against Covid-19; CHADEMA is prepared to work with the governments under President Dr John Magufuli and Dr Ali Mohamed Shein of Zanzibar,” Issa said. Minister Mohamed thanked members of the business community for their donations and promised to hold discussions on the requests for inclusion of members from the private sector in the national anti-coronavirus task force, as their contributions were obvious.