IN Africa, human trafficking may have received attention as a problem of western and northern regions of the continent and seems to have been overlooked elsewhere in Tanzania and in East African countries where it may as well be a time bomb ticking away and waiting to explode. The Northbound human trafficking has, for many years become a solely West African affair as most of horrifying stories of the trafficking came from West Africa or Sahel countries. Much documentaries on human trafficking is about nationals from the Horn of Africa countries heading to South Africa through Kenya, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi. However, in-depth probes and findings have come with baffling, yet horrifying types of human trafficking in East Africa. What have been witnessed include abuse, sex slavery and all sorts of sexual abuse and dehumanisation. The victims of human trafficking are sex workers and only a few of them understand well what they are doing as established in interviews with prostitutes in India with most of them coming from Tanzania, Nigeria, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Uganda and as far as Nigeria. “Many African domestic workers in India are overworked, abused behind closed doors and are subjected to other forms of sexual exploitation,” said Jane Jonathan, a 23 year old Nigerian lady in India. “Most of these women have their passports confiscated by their employers or agents who facilitated their travel to India.” She said there were agents from Tanzania, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Nigeria who help innocent girls from some African countries to travel to India. The victims are ignorant and innocent, and the traffickers cash in on this. The girls, are lured by promises of a glamorous life in India or career prospects, find themselves locked up in brothels. They are being rescued by the police or embassy officials who provide them with temporary travel documents to fly back to their countries, she said. Investigations by this reporter proved what Ms Jonathan claimed. Girls from Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda are lured by prospects of getting jobs and enjoy life in India but end up in prostitution. Various testimonials show the business is taking place mostly in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore, with the girls focusing their market more in rented venues alias ‘kitchen’ and nightclubs. It was revealed that most of those young ladies are unable to go back home because their ‘bosses’ have confiscated their passports to keep them in brothels and prevent attempts to escape. They are most of the time under security and cannot communicate to authorities. They are denied their basic rights to worship and freedom of movement. Amina Maduhu (25) from Shinyanga, Tanzania says that she started engaging in prostitution while in secondary school four years ago, at a time when she was living with her grandmother. “I remember when I was in Geita town (in Tanzania), one man who was connecting us with men around the town, told us that there was work in India and that if we are ready for that job opportunity, he will connect us to some people in India,” she said. “I was convinced and accepted, I had my passport and visa processed but when I arrived in Delhi I found out it was different. The person who picked me from the Indira Gandhi International Airport told me to give him my passport claiming that it would help him complete some procedures and housing logistics for my arrival. “…I gave them my passport and we started the journey to Chattarpur town my final destination though I thought there was probably a good place they would take me because they spent so much to enable my transport from Tanzania. “After sitting for about two hours, I decided to ask them about the destination, and they told me that I had arrived and there was nowhere else to go. “I did not know if it was the end of my ‘safari’, I was put in a smoky, dirty floor double room house. Then someone came and told me that he owed me US dollars 2,000 (over four million Tanzania shillings) and that if I paid them through sexual exploitation they would return my passport. “As days went, the same person filed a claim saying that I should pay US dollars 4,000 (more than eight million Tanzania shillings). Of course, I did not have even a penny and it’s when I felt life was miserable but I wondered ‘how can I get back to Tanzania, yet I don’t have any money?’ “I struggled much and as per April, 2019 I was under their detention as I could not contact any one, no good health care when I get sick and even food is not enough for me. Meanwhile when I provide services to a customer, all the money would be taken by the agent of the brothel,” she said. A Tanzanian calling herself Gaudencia Mbise (24) who is based in Chattar Pur, told this writer in New Delhi that she has been doing prostitution in various cities of India since 2016, but to date she has not been able to make as much money as she expected. “When I left Arusha town, Tanzania in 2016, I went to Mumbai where I was told that there are many film celebrities who love African girls to act in the films and a so a Nigerian agent told me that he has a company. “They paid the fare and reached Mumbai where I was then accommodated in a nice hotel for a night. Two days later he transferred me to a house where I found many ladies living there despite the house being small. I realized that some would leave and not return that night and that’s when I asked one of them to tell me on what was going on at that place and she instead told me ‘what do you see?..., we are doing prostitution’. “I was trapped and then transferred to New Delhi, I then discovered that many Tanzanians and other ladies from other African countries who were being detained indoor for business and most of them got there without knowing what they were going to do in India,” she explained. “In 2017 I became very ill, and unfortunately I did not receive hospital care, I was just given medication from the house. I was not given the opportunity to contact my relatives and even receive treatment from a medical doctor. As a result I contracted infectious diseases,” she said. Bahati Masumbuko (22) from Temeke, Dar es Salaam (Tanzania) said her employer in a brothel forced her to work to up to 18 hours a day and abused her physically while demanding payment of over 5,000 US dollars claiming that she had used much in paying air ticket and visa. A Kenyan born lady, known by name Wanjiku Kimani (22) said that she would sleep with up to ten men a day and all the payments will be directed to her boss ‘madam’ with her not even getting a single cent. In just eight months in Delhi, she claims she has had to sleep with over 800 men. She says that all that happens so that she could pay for the costs of taking her to Delhi from Kenya. “Human trafficking is still going to face our fellow Kenyans as well as Africans if the government of Kenya and recipient India do not take action,” Wanjiku said. Angelina Ndhlovu (21) from Zimbabwe said that technology such as mobile phones and the Internet has been helping to facilitate business and that the trip to India was a result of job opportunities placed on sites. “…My journey to India was different, I so a posted job on website and applied and was told that I have the chance to participate and it’s I ended up in a brothel,” she said. Eze Oghene, from Nigeria said African girls from Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and Rwanda were victims of the human trafficking scourge. “Most of the buyers in our market are also African and Middle Eastern men working or studying in New Delhi. Anna Mwape, a Zambian arrived in Delhi eight-month, where a Zambian broker had sent her via an agent in South Africa. She says that she was promised a job as a receptionist in the Delhi area but on her arrival, he instead turned on her. She said, “It came like a nightmare, I was called and I knew that I was going to be a receptionist but was forced to work for up to 17 hours a day in brothel. “A few months later I started coughing up blood most probably from an infection. My master could not help me get treatment,” the Nigerian lady noted. Nabirye Linah is a Ugandan born, says that it was hard to tell the ladies back in Uganda on what she is passing through. “We are over worked by our bosses, they parade us in brothels for their customers. “Like for me, I know all this is my fault because I was told on the challenges that people face as they get to India brothels and so what am doing is purely what I knew and its killing me as well,” Linah said. BROKERS One sex business broker, by name Adebayo around Chattarpur area in Delhi, said there were big networks of prostitution in India where if one has four ladies one can become rich. “You can make a lot of money from the girls and that is why this business has been hard to control and end it.” In the same area, this reporter found out that due to high number of people from different countries, the brokers use friendly approach to great and ask you whether you need the services or not. “When you are at this area, we must interview you and often when you come here, many come to buy services for the women selling their bodies here. We are prepared to send someone to the ladies if we agree on payment as we live by receiving money through similar deals,” one of the agents explained. ‘Daily News’ noted a section of residences where the ladies live are under high security in the day and night whereby special people and sophisticated scanner machines and cameras are used so that they don’t fall into problems with the government security. A security man in one of the brothels says, “Once we have completed the inspection, we give the client the opportunity to say what he wants, if it is a lady then we tell him to choose and then make a payment to the supervisor or owner. We then give him a room and we must limit time for him according to the amount of money he has given.” A Tanzanian broker, Queen John (33), who is an in-charge of a brothel said they prefer to conduct the business in residential houses because it is not possible to do it in hotels due to legal restrictions. “Here in India a passport for foreigners is the most widely used ID when one seeks accommodation services. Now, for those who do not have passports, have to do this business in a rented house.” Indian student, Anil Sanjey in the suburbs of Chattarpur said that sexual slavery in the 21st century is influenced by civil war, climate change and economic desperation and so millions of women and girls are forced to sell their bodies to survive. He added that some are held captive by gangs and forced to earn back their “debts” since they are paid visa and air ticket from their countries and tricked by promises of a better life and when they get there, they find something so different. AUTHORITIES REACT, EXPLAIN THE MEASURES Police Commissioner of the Delhi Women’s Affairs Unit, Aman Vihar acknowledges the city has a large number of people involved in prostitution and some are foreign nationals. Last year she said that her unit conducted an operation to capture the traffickers and noted that the areas of Aurobindo Marg, Green Park, Hauz Khas and Chattar Pur in the city were extreme for the illegal trade. “Since there are foreign nationals involved in sex trafficking, we partner with the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) to arrest the traffickers and see them deported out of India immediately,” the commissioner said. Tanzania Media Women’s Association (TAMWA), Chairperson Joyce Shebe, says human trafficking is a worldwide problem and it is the third-largest illegal trade. The statement is supported by the Tanzania Gender Network Programme (TGNP) Executive Director Lilian Liundi, who also sees the problem is made worse by lack of employment and education systems in many African countries. “Due to lack of employment and education, our girls or youth are easily lured to go abroad to find employment and at the end of the day they end up being abused,” she explained. REACTION OF THE FOREIGN MINISTRY (TANZANIA) The Head of Communications in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation, Emmanuel Buhohela, says that a large number of Tanzanian citizens associated with the trade are found in the cities of New Delhi, Bangalore, Mumbai, Hyderabad, and Goa. “The number of Tanzanians in India engaging in illegal prostitution and drug trafficking by 2017 was estimated to be between 250 and 300 though by 2016, over 500 women were exploited. “At present, after efforts to regulate evacuation across many of Tanzania’s borders, the Tanzanian passport exchange exercise and the efforts made by the embassy through interviews in Tanzanian television and various publications, the number of Tanzanians has decreased.” he said. He added that the government continues to promote cross-border control within the East African Community (EAC). A spokesman for the Immigration Department of Tanzania, Ally Mtanda said the Immigration Department was aware of the problems facing Tanzanian ladies abroad and were strict controls in passport issuance, especially for middle-aged women. “When young women come to apply for a passport, we interview them and when we realize that they do not have enough information about where they are going and what they are going to do, we do not give them. “If she is going out for studies then we would want to see there admission letters. If it is a job, we want to see a job contract that has a validity of more than six months, but also for anyone leaving, he must have a ticket to go and return,” he explained. Meanwhile, Tanzanian High Commissioner to India, Baraka Luvanda said he would advise Tanzanians to beware of conmen who lure young women to go to India or other countries abroad for unspecified works. Anyone going abroad for work must have proper contract which must be seen and approved by relevant government authorities, he said. WORDS FROM UGANDA POLICE It was also reported that the Uganda Police 2017 Annual Crime Report registered 177 cases of trafficking in persons, a 41.6 percent rise from the 125 cases recorded in 2016. Sixteen traffickers were convicted in 2016, compared to three in 2015. Over 300 cases were filed in 2018, but the police estimate that up to 50 girls are trafficked undetected every day. The increase in trafficking cases is well in line with the public outcry on social media platforms about Ugandan women stranded in various countries in the Middle East and Asia (India included). ILO REPORTS A 2016 report by the International Labor Organisation (ILO) revealed that less than 18 million children and 3.8 million women are victims of sexual exploitation associated which is directly related to Human Trafficking. According to the report, out of 10 victims of this type of violence, 07 are engaged in sexual exploitation in the Asian continent. Also, the organizations 2017 report also revealed that 24.9 million people had been involved in illicit human trafficking and more than 50 percent had been sexually abused. GLOBAL SLAVERY INDEX The Global Slavery Index figures for 2018 indicate that 336,000 Tanzanians are being abused. The figures also show that out of every 100 people in the country, 60 are at risk of being physically or mentally hurt by being used in work situations, sexual assault, forced marriage and prostitution whereas 6.24/1000 is the estimated proportion of population living in modern slavery. The report also notes that Zambia with an estimated population of 16 million has over 92,000 people leaving in modern slavery. Kenya with a population of 47.2 million people, has an estimate of 328,000 in the slavery whereas 6.94/1000 is the proportion of population living in modern slavery.