SIMBA SC ‘ bull’ striker Meddie Kagere has labelled Dar es Salaam derby duel against traditional rivals Young Africans as the most epic, tension packed and adrenaline moving. In his recent interview with Uganda based Kawowo Sports, Kagere rated the Tanzania derby as the most difficult he has played compared to derbies in Rwanda and Kenya. “Before I came to Tanzania, I had played derbies in Rwanda and Kenya. In Kenya, I scored in most derby games apart from one game which ended goalless. The Simba- Tanzania derby remains the best. For about a month or two, nothing is spoken about but that upcoming derby. “It gives you time to prepare and think about. From the street talk, media to public offices, nothing is talked about but Simba versus Yanga. I also get calls from Europe, South Africa, Rwanda and elsewhere of personal friends who wish to carry along a special boot and watch me play the derby in Dar es Salaam. “It is tense, stadium full to capacity and waoooo, mouth-watering. Losing to a rival team is very painful and hurting.” Kagere, whose energy levels are always immense, noted of the Tanzanian derby. Kagere, who is currently housed in his Kigali, Rwanda based villa with the family in a lock down because of the raging Coronavirus pandemic across the world is currently the leading goal scorer in the Mainland Premier League with 19 goals and six assists. He remains on course and firing via all cyclinder heads as he is destined for the top scorer’s gong this season. Last season, he won the golden boot after scoring 23 goals for Simba. In Rwanda, Kagere featured for Kiyovu Sports Club, Mukura Victory, Police FC and Rayon Sport. He also had a successful three seasons with Kenya Premier League giants Gor Mahia after joining them in 2015, winning the league on three successive counts in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Kagere joined Simba in 2018 in a mouthwatering deal and has since become a key member of the first team. He is destined for a third premier league title in the 2019-2020 season as Simba sit top of the league table on 71 points from 28 matches, massive 17 points above second placed Azam FC, who have played the same number of matches. Concerning his future at the Mzimbazi Street club, Kagere opened up about looming offers. He said there are a number of clubs on the African continent in Egypt, Zambia and South Africa that are still interested in his services but at the moment, he admitted that he still has a running contract and Simba is not willing to let their goal scoring machine go. To be more specific Egyptian giants Zamalek and South Africa’s Mamelodi Sundowns are two clubs interested in Kagere. On life as a professional footballer, Kagere said that there is no short cut, but working hard. “Every day is a new lease of hope to work hard. Training is part and parcel of the success story. There is no excuse. Of course, personally, I was passionate right from childhood days. I also had the belief and courage. Here I am,” Kagere said. Meanwhile, Coastal Union leadership revealed that it was ready to allow key defender Bakari ‘Nondo’ Mwamyeto to join Simba but only at the right price. They did not disclose the figure but sources within the Tanga based Mainland Premier League side said it ranges from 80m/- to 100m/-. A member of the Coastal Union player’s Registration Committee, Ahmad Aulora insisted that they have no problem with the player’s decision to join any other team but said procedures must be observed. “He (Mwamnyeto) is still our player with valid contract but this does not mean that we will block him from joining any other team of his choice because players always seek for greener pastures. “What we insist is that transfer procedures must be followed. Any teams interested in his signature must come to us for negotiations,” he said. For the past few months, Simba have been strongly linked to win the signature of the Taifa Stars key defender, as they seek to reinforce their defensive line for next season duels. In a recent interview, the defender said he is 90 per cent certain to play CAF Champions League games next season with many pundits believing that he will land at the Msimbazi Street based club. On several occasions, Mwamnyeto has been heard via different media platforms that he wants to face a new challenge in the top flight next season with Simba being his favourite destination.