AZAM FC said the decision to extend Obrey Chirwa's contract for another year was reached after his performance this season convinced the club. Chirwa recently penned down a one year deal, which will see him stay put at the ‘ice-cream makers’ side until 2020/2021. The club described him as a reliable asset. “We agreed to extend his contract because he is still a reliable player in our squad and his services are still very much needed for the next season. He is a good player and the club is happy to have him,” said the club’s Information Officer, Thabith Zakaria. He added that discussions with Chirwa went smoothly as the player could not travel to his native country of Zambia due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, Zakaria reiterated that the future of another striker Donald Ngoma still hangs in balance as the two sides have not met to discuss on possible contract extension. The Zimbabwean player joined Azam in 2018 from Young Africans but frequent injuries saw him enjoying limited playing time, despite flourishing at his former club. Azam, who last won the Mainland Premier League title in 2014 are second on the league table with 54 points from 28 games and trail leaders Simba SC with 17 points from similar number of games. Also, Azam are second after Simba in terms of goals they have so far scored in the league before it came to a halt due to coronavirus scourge. They have netted 37 goals against 63 converted by the defending champions. Iringa based Lipuli FC are third on the log in terms of more goals scored so far by a club in the league this term as they have netted 35 goals only two goals short from Azam FC. Bottom placed Singida United are the side with few scored goals (16) and conceded more goals (49) than any other team on the ladder, no wonder, relegation jaws are wide open for them this season. Recently, Azam announced that all their remaining league matches will be hosted at their Azam Complex arena, following completion of a major facelift, which involved total removal of the artificial turf and replaced it with a new one. During the renovation works, Azam home games were shifted at Uhuru Stadium and National Stadium respectively in the city.