COACH Juma Mwambusi said he is now focusing to cross the borders and seek greener pastures outside the country. Mwambusi rose to coaching fame in 2013 when he managed to navigate Mbeya City into the Mainland Premier League and became one of the stubborn sides during the 2013-14 season. “My dream was to win trophies and medals here at home something which I have accomplished as such, I want to go outside the country to prove my potential wherever I will get a chance to coach,” he said. He also disclosed that his wish was to mentor one of the big teams in the country and succeeded to fulfill that at Young Africans, when he was the right hand man to the then Head Coach Hans Van Pluijm. “I believe that I have passed through all coaching stages in the country to the extent that if I may be asked to mention the big level of my profession, the name of Yanga is enough since they featured in international competitions like CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup,” he said. He then revealed that he is under the agent of the B elgian trainer Pluijm, who is searching for clubs which may be interested to hire the services of the two coaches. “With the coaching experience of 16 years, I think I am ready to go outside the country and impart my skills to any team since currently, I have excelled to mentor big teams in the nation," he said. He added that his desire to go outside the country will help to open doors for other Tanzanian coaches to train teams outside the country. “We need to do away with the negative mentality that the Tanzanian coaches are not capable to train foreign teams,” he said. Mwambusi and Pluijm have had a good coaching relationship as the pair managed to coach two different teams together beginning at Yanga and Azam FC respectively. They went separate ways after their contracts were terminated by the ‘ice cream makers’ club. Immediately after departing Azam, Mwambusi reunited with his former club Mbeya City but was compelled to resign midway into the season following series of poor results under his tutelage.