NEW camera technology that detects people’s temperature from a distance has been introduced into the local market by Emotec Limited, a local company, the move that would help tame the spread of pandemic coronavirus. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, Emotec Limited Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Moses Hella said the company that focuses on consultancy and delivering innovative business solutions for both public and private sector, among others has innovative intelligent video surveillance (Smart CCTV) for home and business with features including motion detection, intruder detection, night vision and alarms, which help in theft incidents. “In this category, we also provide thermal cameras that can detect people’s temperature from a distance especially during this pandemic of Covid19 time,” he said. “Our plan is to help our government via this technology to control the spread of coronavirus, because we believe that by inserting these cameras in various populated areas like Airports, Supermarkets and others will help detect people with coronavirus and take action.” Explaining, the CEO said their other products, which include Innovative VSaaS (Video Surveillance as a Service) is a video surveillance platform conceptualized, and designed or built specifically to meet video storage challenges. VSaaS is a web-hosted, wireless security system that allows users to remotely store, manage, record, play or monitor surveillance footage – entirely in the cloud. “However, it should be noted that the footage is not stored onsite, and users don’t need recording using a DVR/NVR, only a wireless camera system and Internet connection,” he said. His list also included Innovative Internet of Things (IoT) solution for fleet tracking and monitoring vehicles, saying: “Through our solution you get real time monitoring of speed, fuel, temperature, and so on from your mobile phone. Including also the following services of software and Apps development like interactive websites, e-commerce platforms, various applications based on requirements.” Explaining, he said Innovative Soft-Switch Communication is a complete platform that enables you to manage your VOIP services for both residential and Enterprise customers and provide VOIP calling (Prepay Services), Wi-Fi calling, Consumer Services, Enterprise Services and VAS services using our Multiservice Soft Switch platform.