 AS the world marked this year's Malaria Day yesterday, Tanzania highlighted its remarkable achievements in reducing deaths caused by the disease by almost 70 per cent during the past four years.  Data from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children shows that the number of fatalities has dropped by 67 percent from 6,311 to 2,079 in 2015 and 2019, respectively. In her statement to the media in marking the Day, the sector minister, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, said the infection rate had  decreased by 50 per cent during the corresponding period. In 2015, the infection rate stood at 14.8 per cent but the figure dropped to 7.3 per cent last year. 'These successes have been made following undertaking of various interventions, including controlling mosquitoes such as through spraying biolarvicides, the exercise which were implemented by councils," Ms Mwalimu explained. She further attributed the achievements to distribution of treated mosquito nets, whereby in 2019, the government distributed 6,936,202 mosquito nets to special groups, The nets were supplied in 14 most affected regions–Coast, Morogoro, Lindi, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Katavi, Tabora, Kigoma, Mwanza, Geita, Mara, Shinyanga, Kagera and Simiyu. She reiterated that the government had continued  to ensure enough supply of drugs and medical devices for treating malaria at all health centres, including special care for  pregnant women and children. Last year, during the commemoration of SADC Malaria Day, member states launched in Kibaha District, Coast Region, the campaign dubbed 'Zero Malaria Starts with Me' which added more weight to the fight against the disease. The minister however stated that despite achievements, there was still a challenge among the members of the public who do not use the mosquito nets and malaria drugs properly. The public has also not been effectively participating in keeping the environment clean and destroying the mosquito larvae. "I am therefore calling upon members of the public to properly use treated mosquito nets every day and destroy the larvae," she said. She furthermore urged people to go to health centres upon feeling any malaria symptoms to facilitate early diagnosis and treatment. This year's World Malaria Day is marked at a time when the world is grappling with efforts to contain the Covid-19 which has claimed thousands of lives. Ms Mwalimu pointed out that as the people were taking precautions against Coronavirus  infection,  they should also prevent themselves from contracting infectious diseases such as Malaria. Meanwhile, Zanzibaris have been urged not to concentrate on fighting Covid-19 alone, but also expend similar efforts against malaria and cholera, particularly during the rain season. Since gatherings have been restricted, the Zanzibar  Minister for Health, Mr Hamad Rashid Mohamed, said in a statement to mark the Day that the Isles had made remarkable progress in curbing malaria prevalence at below one percent over the past decade, but the record had been tarnished by many cases of malaria recorded last year . "As we act tough to control the spread of coronavirus, we should continue with our mission of eliminating malaria and cholera from the Isles. Normally at this time of rain, malaria and cholera increase; We should not allow this, by keeping our surroundings clean to stop mosquito breeding and cholera," said Mohamed, adding: “Last year 10,185 cases of malaria were recorded from all facilities, but it is fortunate that we  have improved malaria testing by acquiring modern equipment such as malaria Rapid Diagnostic Test (MRDT)." He said that between April last year and March this year, 54,491 treated mosquito nets were distributed to pregnant mothers, 50,374 nets to children under the age of one-year, and 122, 479 nets given to other citizens. "Plans are underway to distribute mosquitoes nets to people in hotspot areas of Mjini, Magharib A and Magharib B districts on Unguja Islands. Health officers also conducted outreach programs by  making follow-ups of 5,400 malaria cases in homes last year," the minister said, as he emphasized on using mosquito nets and rush for testing if anybody felt sick. World Malaria Day, which takes place on 25 April each year, is an internationally recognised day, highlighting the global efforts to control malaria and celebrating the gains that have been made. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), since 2000, the world has made historic progress against malaria, saving millions of lives. However, half the world still lives at risk from this preventable, treatable disease, which costs a child's life every two minutes. The theme of World Malaria Day 2020: "Zero Malaria Starts with Me," is a movement dedicated to driving action and making change, and this starts with YOU! Get your leaders to take action using the resources available here." Global malaria partnership also urges countries to act during the 'window of opportunity' to save lives from malaria and Covid-19.       