ACHIEVEMENT is a great feeling. Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), the government agency charged with the responsibility of managing the assessment, collection and accounting of all central government revenue, now under the leadership of Commissioner General Dr Edwin P. Mhede, must be feeling happy because happiness lies in the joy of achievement. I will explain. Well, one of the triumphs is that the authority collected 1.767tn/-in taxes in September 2019. This, among other accomplishments, is the highest amount it has ever collected since its inception in 1996. Likewise, we are told that in July and August 2019, the authority met its collection targets by 91.92 percent and 96 percent, with 1.256 tn/-and 1.335 tn/-in tax revenues. Why shouldn’t TRA be happy and praised? The success did not come out of the blue though. They worked hard because achievement seems to be connected with action, said Conrad Nicholson Hilton (1887-1979) an American hotelier and the founder of the Hilton Hotels chain, and he artfully argued, successful men and women keep moving. They make mistakes, but they don’t quit. TRA has not quitted. Their direction remains clear; they want to achieve full potential in tax revenue collection for our country. They will do it. So they must be happy and therefore they deserve to be praised because of the action they took. Despite a minor drop in collections, their positive trend speaks it all. We know that a result of the authority staff commitment to fairness and integrity, good relationship with key stakeholders which lead to improved compliance among taxpayers, and an enriched local government authorities’ cooperation with the authority, have enabled them to persistently surpass collections. From this unique inclination, I see them continuing to meet the target. This is true because with their positive development of tax revenues it will contribute to our economic growth which largely depends on the provision of high-quality infrastructure and public goods that facilitate economic players in a highly competitive global economy. But this success has its origin. It is, in my view, connected with the fifth government’s determination, well understood in President John Magufuli solid ‘boost internal revenue’ tune as he and his team seek to ensure that state revenue-generation strategies are optimized. President Magufuli tune has encouraged the authority to hard work, ensure improved tax systems, abide to a vow to implement comprehensive reforms in TRA tax administrations, clear and growing commitment to addressing persistent glitches such as corruption, erosion of the tax base, something which has had detrimental fiscal effects for a long time, we are now constantly told that significant amounts of money is reaching the treasury. This is good news. But we should be realistic. With all the good news, it does not mean job is done. I hope TRA knows well the truth contained in the wisdom of Eric Hoffer 1898–1983, an American moral and social philosopher who once said, our achievements speak for themselves. What we have to keep track of are our failures, discouragements and doubts. Let me chat a little bit on the quote. It may be easy for the authority to know their failure and act quickly to address them, but as far as discouragements and doubts in the authority is concerned, it can be challenging. As for these challenges, it is well known that across Africa, tax authorities are also faced with hindrances and uncertainties. This means that the remarkable revenue collection is not spared by the shortcomings derived from the tax administration complexities in most countries in Africa and beyond. These encounters are worthy citing. They are many but to mention a few commonly known, one cannot ignore or forget about issues like, constant appeals for good working conditions, inadequate training of personnel on tax collection procedures, authority’s struggle to limit or reduce direct political interference and influence on tax payment compliance, limited incentives for greater job motivation and wage, limited power in matters of tax control, and narrow recruitment base despite demand for increased collection. These are common realities. Notably though, much has been done by the fifth government to address these bottlenecks, but still much needs to be done. And there is also another challenge which tends to be forgotten now and then. It is about citizens. I think wananchi needs to be told of some truths so that they become more sympathetic about TRA performance. Let the general public be aware of situations that could possibly affect TRA success I mentioned earlier and a few others I will highlight. One of the important matter wananchi should know is their tax compliance behaviour which matters very much when it comes to TRA success. Most importantly citizens should know that even though taxpayer non‐compliance is a continual and growing global problem, but it is common in developing countries like ours where we are hardest hit. This means, among the major tasks that TRA should keep working hard on as they do, is in the area of tax knowledge among wananchi. I am glad TRA has increased effort in the areas of public tax education. However, any failure in tax education will lead to domestic tax bases in our country severely undermined by widespread tax avoidance and evasion leading to decline in revenue. This we bring to attention because it is significantly correlated with tax compliant attitude in most African countries. A good example is what many would know well, that is, tax revenue depends on external factors over which the tax administration has no control. Here we are talking about impact of general economic trends on tax bases such as income tax, VAT and import duties. In fact the current corona pandemic is a good example of an issue which is beyond control. But resilience is an important value here. Beyond TRA promising performance, we argue them not to forget that it is the lack of ability to raise revenue that hinders investment in public goods for wananchi. And the government has its place in all this. It should continue to be committed and realistic. In any country in the world, it is individuals who are more satisfied with public service provision who will be more likely to have a tax compliant attitude. This too applies in my country Tanzania. As a taxpayer, I would like to see, as JPM has stood for, government expenditures motivating me by providing goods we wananchi prefer. In fact many would want to see these goods in a much more efficient and accessible manner. And it is a known fact that the main concern of taxpayers is what they get directly in return for their tax payments. Wananchi will see and appreciate this return in the form of public services we benefit from. No wonder why, people like Mick Moore, a political economist and professorial fellow at the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex see the provision of public goods and services as a contractual relationship between taxpayers and the government. So, let the government encourage TRA by encouraging citizens to pay taxes because they value the goods provided by the government. Let the government help taxpayers comply voluntarily, without direct coercion. Let the general public inspire them to recognize that their payments are necessary both to help finance the goods and services and to get others to contribute. Let us also give TRA time. Their ongoing reforms need time and results will always depend on the criteria underlying factors such as those of continued cooperation and support among to TRA and tax stakeholders. So well done TRA. Keep on keeping on. Many may not acknowledge your record performance in history of our country, but it has been recorded, it is visible and vivid. Your success today, is the beginning of our tomorrow’s national achievement. As you continue to do the best, be reminded that your good spirit shall put you in the best place for the next moment. On this achievement, and many more to come, I wish Tanzania Revenue Authority hearty congratulations. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@ gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997