FOR the first time since the Second World War prestigious golf championship The Open 2020 has been cancelled. Tanzania being among the members has also been affected by the reschedule as already all golf activities in the country have been suspended until further notice. World Golf Governing Body, The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews (R& A) of Scotland’s press statement released this week and the ‘Daily News’ has its copy, said that they have decided to cancel The Open 2020 due to the current Covid-19 pandemic and the Championship will be played at Royal St George’s in 2021. The Open golf’s original Championship was first played in 1860 and since then has been held every year. Martin Slumbers, Chief Executive of The R& A, said, “Our absolute priority is to protect the health and safety of the fans, players, officials, volunteers and staff involved in The Open. This year’s event was due to be played in Kent from July 12th to 19th , but it has been necessary to cancel the Championship based on guidance from the UK Government, the health authorities, public services and The R& A’s advisers. The 149th Open will be played at Royal St George’s from 11-18 July 2021 while The 150th Open will be played at St Andrews from 10-17 July 2022. The R& A said will transfer over tickets and hospitality packages purchased for the Championship in 2020 to The Open in 2021. Purchasers who no longer wish to (or are no longer able to) attend in 2021 will receive a full refund. Further information on this process will be sent directly to ticket and hospitality purchasers in due course. Slumbers said: “We care deeply about this historic Championship and have made this decision with a heavy heart. We appreciate that this will be disappointing for a great many people around the world, but this pandemic is severely affecting the UK and we have to act responsibly. It is the right thing to do. “I can assure everyone that we have explored every option for playing The Open this year but it is not going to be possible. “There are many different considerations that go into organising a major sporting event of this scale. We rely on the support of the emergency services, local authorities and a range of other organisations to stage the Championship and it would be unreasonable to place any additional demands on them when they have far more urgent priorities to deal with.”