I AM sure all my avid readers would agree to one statement that “everybody may not have enough money, but for sure everybody has one or other idea to work on”. Irrespective of one’s family background, education, profession or even gender, each one of us has one or other unique idea. Remember, it is not the prerogative of only rich to have innovative ideas but each of us has the ability to think and develop innovative ideas. If that was not the case, then majority of the successful start-up companies like face book, uber, whatsApp, Skype and so many others would not have become a reality. Initially most of these founders were not rich, but they gradually attain richness once they worked to make their idea a reality. In order to find and exploit the opportunities made possible by big changes in technology or society, we need to explicitly question existing assumptions about what is good or valuable and what is not—and then, through reflection, come up with a new lens to examine innovation ideas. Such questioning and reflection characterize the art of criticism. This goes contrary to the saying that “it takes money to make money”. I feel there are tons of ways to make money, but people never pursue them because they see pursuing such ideas as “not workable” or “menial” or “not worth their time”. You have great ideas but no money to start a business. This is a common question for those who have a big dream to start a business.  What are you going to do, if you have a master idea but no money in hand, to achieve it? Yes, even without money but with a great idea you can achieve a lot, provided you want to give that idea a chance. You got to be passionate about your idea and nothing else. Money will automatically flow-in provided you believe in yourself and in the idea you conceived. There is no surcharge one has to pay to generate good ideas. Who says that it is only the rich people who have patents over good ideas? In fact world-wide it has been proved beyond doubt that majority of the inventions happened in a garage or a small apartment. There is a Telecom Company in India named ‘Idea Cellular’. One of their adverts concludes with a nice punch line stating that– “an idea can change your life.” It is indeed true. Most of us are trying hard to change our lives with money but with no idea as to how it can be done. Therefore I can say with certainty that an idea could be worth a billion dollars or even more. An Idea for sure is more powerful than the money itself and despite so, there is a rat race to earn money and thus leaving behind many good ideas which we come across on daily basis. So from here on please stop complaining that ‘you have no money’ because in this case someone would surely say ‘but you have ideas’. Please work on them and money will flow automatically. Finally let me conclude by sharing a famous quote stating that– “an idea is like a cup of coffee, but remember it is not going to stay hot for a long time”.  This means you need to act fast, before your idea goes cold.