TAKE a walk in Tanzania from Namanga to Tunduma, Mtukula to Dar es Salaam and cross to Zanzibar, you will roam and do business with reputable telecommunication networks connecting with people before going outside the country. This has been realized with such a company penetrating deep into the remote parts of the country, connecting more than 78,000 villages since 2015 up to date, which had never been connected with any mobile network ever since the country attained independence from the colonizers. As a legal mobile telecommunication firm registered with Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority, this is where Halotel has also been assisting the government through its Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) that tasks an investor to plough back some of its accrued profit to the communities, which surround it. In the breathe, the company has focused in many society’s aspects, which include economic, health and addressing unemployment in the country by offering jobs to the locals and reaching remote parts of the country with easy communication network. For instance, in Manyara region in Mbulu district, Aicho village apart from being the first helpful network in communication, it facilitated the residents’ access to safe and clean water after realizing that water was scarce in the area. In drawing that Halotel together with some Journalists presented the problem to the area including Arumeru District commissioner, Jerry Muro, during a tour of Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Manyara, Singida, Dodoma, Morogoro regions and a solution was sought. Zoom to the education sector, in 2018, Halotel released 50m/- to Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner’s Office to support in the construction teachers’ offices in 402 Schools in the region, where 295 of the institutions were primary schools, and 107 Secondary ones after realizing that their staffs were working in unfriendly environment. In the same arena, Halotel sponsored Makongo Secondary School with sports’ gears, which include jersey, and balls among others to engage and motivate the students’ enthusiasm in games, because studies with no physical games make Jack a dull boy. In Lindi region, the company supported the construction of a Computer room, and fully equipped it with gargets, besides providing free internet connection to Kassim Majaliwa Secondary School at Ruangwa, which in turn have improved ICT learning at the institution and encourages students to learn more science subjects. In the same vein, Halotel partnered with NMB bank to provide best ICT services to government’s schools, where in the agreement, NMB Bank will continue to provide computers to schools, and Halotel Tanzania will continue providing internet connections to help the schools cope with the fast growing technology and simplify learning. To plough back with its pool professional of staff, it embarked on providing Internet service to 455 Primary and Secondary School, offering Optical fiber termination to 147 District Councils countrywide, supporting the Optical fiber termination to 150 District Hospitals nationwide, realizing Optical fiber termination to 121 District Police Stations and supporting Optical fiber termination to 26 Law Court Offices countrywide. The list also included supporting Optical fiber termination to 66 Post Offices, and Online study, especially this time when students are out of schools due to pandemic coronavirus quarantining them at home. In the health sector it is worth remembrance that the company, especially in May 2018 during the Easter season to express love organized its Board of Directors and staff and visited Muhimbili National Hospital-Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) wing and provided it with basic needs to support children suffering from Hydrocephalus diseases and Spinal Bifida, as well as their custodians caring for them during medication. The list may be long, but worth inclusion are the Kigamboni District Council support, where they were assisted with 10 tanks of water and 150 bed sheets for their Hospital needs. This was simply to facilitate empower the institution to cater for the patients, who require water and clean be sheets and mattress during their recovery periods. Equally, Halotel ploughed back in the health sector at Namtumbo District in Ruvuma region, where it purchased for them beds, especially to support pregnant mothers during deliveries. To usher in new year, this year Halotel organized Shukrani concert to thank customers for their support and for choosing Halotel, where in the process released Hospital equipment’s of 3 Exahipation beds, 100 Bed sheet, 36 Mosquito nets and 12 Heavy Duty apron to Dodoma Regional Commissioner for the area District Hospital-Makole hospital. Other assistance have come in form of supporting the Marine Vessel tragedy (MV Nyerere) in September, 2018, victims in Mwanza region, where it also send condolence and material support through the are Regional Commissioner. It also embarked on empowering the communities through trainings and loan provision to the youth, where they were educated saving skills in informal groups’ accounts and community saving accounts among others, here the youth get loans for agricultural activities, while partnering with Mercy Corps that also educated them on climate change. Equally, the company came up with HaloPesa product, where over 1 million active customers as well as 50,000 plus active agents, 47 super agents and 11 Special Super Agents customers were schooled in mobile saving and loan product called HaloYako in partnership with FINCA Microfinance Bank. On local employment, the company has offered over 1000 jobs directly to the nationals, besides over 20, 000 indirect jobs, as a source of livelihoods, where they eke out a living and feed their families. On Towers to boost communication especially in remote areas, the company has given priority to places with poor infrastructures including roads, where at least they can be accessed by telecommunication.