IT is more than clear now that our planet is under a serious attack from an invisible enemy, whose avalanches of effects has left a lot to be desired. Covid–19 has disrupted our supply chains at a speed no one could imagine. Contrary to European countries and America whose economy hinges on service and manufacturing, agriculture is a dominant sector to majority of the countries south of the Sahara by providing employment to about 65 per cent of their populations. Agriculture is responsible with over 50 percent of foreign exchange as the result of countries’ exports. In Tanzania where public investment in agricultural sector is relatively minimal, better price in the Oman market tends to act as the greatest incentive to the farmer of Bambara nuts in Tandahimba, Mtwara. Its decline does exactly opposite to the farmer and dashes any hope of government’s involvement in the future. If we were to care for famers a little bit, we would develop some measures that will ensure sustainability of their venture which doubles as a national cash–cow. There are proposals in public domain from different angles to designate a good amount of relief package so they are not left to die in the cold, they are not off point. Danger happens when we solely advocate for it as if it’s going to be a panacea for all the ills in the sector. Source of all this is disruption of market patterns. This means all rescue measures needs to either redeem the current dying markets or create totally new ones, the latter seems to be more pragmatic at this time than the former, and this brings us to the heart of today’s discussion. Commodities like coffee, cashew nuts, pulses, tea and cotton are traditionally export oriented crops, that is why despite the fact that some of them forms part of the human diet just like maize and rice, they are not labelled as food crops but cash. All these are currently facing global market backlash and if International Monetary Fund (IMF), predictions are anything to go by, their past gains are going to be lost like no time before. Since global food consumption that creates food demand has declined due to closure of schools, restaurants and ban of social ceremonies like weddings and festivals; Price of the same is expected to sink further as it has started now. Lower prices are anticipated to discourage farmers from producing the crops and so they will prefer producing to subsist rather than having surplus for commercial purposes. This will eventually lead us to food shortage. One honourable thing we can assume as an antidote is development of local consumption and if we can expand our wings, then we can cast our focus on the region. This is largely because, most of them have little dominance locally. The whole process however, needs to be preceded by installing local processing capacity, but as of now, it is disinteresting to know which button exactly has to be pressed, whether that could be public investment, private innovation or social network–it is just less important, at least for now. Lucky enough, crops like pulses needs very little new processing investments, so campaign can get momentum by starting from there. If it succeeds, it is going to save the lives of more than 3 million farmers cultivating them. The whistle blown by World Food Programme (WFP) recently alerts us of the danger that the world is on the verge to face. It has dawned on the WFP that the world is going to face an increment of the number of people with acute hunger by a hundred per cent. As it stood, 130 million people suffered severe food shortages last year, the current estimation by WFP mean that 135 million people will be added to the list. It couldn’t be worse than that. The major causes for the past number of hungry people are well known; drought, conflict, diseases and locust outbreak, especially in the Eastern and Horn of Africa region. But Covid–19 pandemic has alone doubled the crisis. Again this reminds us that a regional perspective should also be kept in the matrix as the whole of Sub-Saharan Africa, that includes the countries like Zimbabwe, South Africa, and Botswana, are going to be in high demand of these essential products, without losing focus on Kenya, Uganda, Somalia and Ethiopia that lost part of their 2020 produce to locust. By and large, the current rate of intra–Africa trade is around 15 per cent, by re-strategizing intelligently, we are going to open up some more markets revitalize many crops currently seems redundant by western consumption habit. So this adds magnitude to the calls that needs quickening implementation of Africa Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AfCFTA). If this will be materialised, it is certain that commodities prices will be salvaged that will in turn incentivize farmers to do their job more immaculately.