WHENEVER I think of donors, international aid or development agencies, supporting say, AIDS relief, Africa Peacekeeping, Maternal and Child Survival programmes, disaster or general national budget assistance, what comes to my mind is the power that developing world experiences as donor funding continue to fuel a vast increase in service delivery for poverty reduction and human flourishing. This they have done for more than five decades and now proven in my country, under President John Magufuli’s leadership, where throughout Tanzania’s urban and rural landscape wananchi witness a series of tangible project being implemented. Within this context, it is, in my view, not difficult at all to link these decades of donor commitment as that which possibly finds its roots in the wisdom of John Bunyan an English writer and Puritan preacher who once said; you have not lived today until you have done something for someone who can never repay you. The donor community knows this well. Likewise, it seems as if they all have a common understanding of an insight given by Albert Einstein a German-born theoretical physicist, who rightly observed; the value of a man resides in what he gives and not in what he is capable of receiving. I think despite other challenges, mostly those related to donors’ approach, surely the developing world should appreciate the donor community for remaining faithful as they think of giving not as a duty but as a privilege, to use John D. Rockefeller Jr. American financier and philanthropist. That said, however, there is a dark side to this badly needed donor support because one of the most burning issues that has faced this community for all the five decades has been on the governance question of deteriorating aid money corruption contexts, not only in Africa, but globally. That is why the community has been and continues to seek ways to move towards more effective collective responses to tackle the problem. Sadly, this highly visible phenomenon has tended to receive no or little attention from the receiving end except when the leadership decides to do so. Our experience from what is happening in terms of donor-recipient relationships and reading from various sources, donors have at many occasions been hurt by scattered half-finished projects abandoned in midconstruction processes. It can be frustrating. But what is exactly the core donor concern in this conversation? What is it that a recipient partner should know and urgently act on? Well, in my view, it is all to do with corruption but well described in terms of lack of accountability for performance at various levels. It is governance and accountability dysfunctions underpinning which is a major source of donor pain. I wish to join the donor community in calling for enhanced mutual accountability among the giving and the receiving partners. This is not a one sided business, but rather two way. This is where others have tended to go further to encourage donor alignment with policies and developing partner systems not to be ignored. This we emphasise because a number of governments in Africa have, in many occasions, openly raise questions about skewed accountability relations towards donors too. And as it has always been urged, I am of the position that in order to succeed in addressing these partnership challenges both partners need to agree to work together, as many do, on improving planning, financial management, reporting and broader accountability functions for it is the lack or limited commitment to institutional reforms and credible financial and budget governance which have tended to breed in corruption. I know, donors like their counterparts, want to benefit from lifting the tide of transparency and accountability. And even though this tends not to be widely publicized, but it remains true that many donor countries and their respective organizations have, by and large, dealt with the frustrations of recipient end financial mismanagement, embezzlement and theft of aid money. Their cry is to see a culture of compliance promoted to the highest level. No wonder why on several occasions the developing world has seen romance ending between donors and some developing countries where in some cases donor country budgets have sharply reduced their aid regardless whether the donor country is by far a certain country’s largest bilateral aid donor. This is where its important and actually we must give credit to leaders, like JPM, who have committedly stood up, with the “right mind-sets”, to use the words of the former chairperson of the African Union his H.E. President Paul Kagame of Rwanda words, to ensure there are sufficient conditions for the success of the donor support intervention. We should appreciate and congratulate those leaders who have and continues to gain prestige in the African continent for their leadership role in donor coordination in their country, their sincere commitment to no-nonsense approach to external partners, and the developmental results in their countries. These type of leaders have been instrumental in sorting out the problem of poor governance of budget planning, accountability and transparency arrangements. I am obviously aware of the fact that repeated efforts aimed at reducing dependency on foreign funding has so far, largely failed. Here I am concerned, as I have always argued on this column, about the danger of a high dependency rate of most African countries, on its former colonisers and current main donors. I wish we were self-sustained, if not, let us use aid money wisely. So our proposal today, briefly set in a context of a possible productive conversation on the intersection of corruption and donor-funding is important for it invites my reader to understand why donors have always been and indeed should concerned. Here I mean donors’ worry and anxiety on what they give to support poor countries, their level of funding, stakeholder or recipient country involvement, fund management and the need for capacity building mostly on the part of those who are responsible to managing resources in any project intevention. This dialogue also unearths and challenges both partners to discover why corruption has always been, and in my view, will continue to be an issue more prominent in donor policies and programmes as they seek to link these with the need for good governance, new aid modalities and poverty reduction. Likewise, our discussion challenges donors to apprehend the need for them to seriously continue to invest more in evaluating and understanding what works as far as corruption, societal accountability, and donor principles of collaboration are concerned. Well, there are also some issues on the donor side. Even though experience shows that much has been achieved on addressing longstanding gaps and disparities in past and some current donor efforts in the areas of governance and anti-corruption, yet still there are still concerns on whether many donor interventions aiming at achieving changes in formal institutions like media laws, procurement laws, and asset declaration laws are enough. I think they should increase support in this area too. Obviously, on a balanced side of the conversation, one can not underestimate a range of donor-supported reforms which have been in place for a long time. These have contributed to the improvement on governance in general and have reduced corruption in particular. No wonder why, apparently, most democracies in Africa are appreciating the various approaches that donors have adopted to help reduce corruption and shifting from focussing on technical reform to formal institutions, to carefully, unlike in the past, pay reasonable attention to the interests, incentives and informal interactions of implementing parties. This is good news. So, my plea today is simple and clear. To the donor community, I urge you to consider working on the basis of the wisdom once given by Clive Staples Lewis, a British writer and lay theologian, who said; the proper aim of giving is to put the recipients in a state where they no longer need our gifts. Please help with the dependency syndrome. To the receiving community, I would urge our leaders to take seriously the intersection of corruption and donor-funding as they work towards ensuring that their government provides basic and other social infrastructure for the wellbeing of wananchi. Our leaders should not only do so by looking at, say donor funded projects, as a crucial function of government in our developing countries, but avoid looking at these projects as only politically popular hence open the door for them to use in credit claiming and not addressing corruption. Maya Angelou an American poet, singer, memoirist, and civil rights activist aptly summarises the conversation well: one must know not just how to accept a gift, but with what grace to share it. Cheers!