THE closure of the Arusha golf course has forced Tanzania’s top lady golfer, Madina Iddi to rest at home, while his male counterpart, Victor Joseph shifted to TPDF Lugalo where he seriously trains for major tournaments. Following the outbreak of coronavirus, Tanzania, through the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa’s directives, suspended all sports activities as means against the spread of the pandemic virus. At Lugalo course, Joseph had to join other golfers in what they called a contact-less safe training apart from strictly observing cleanliness and safety measures against coronavirus. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’, Joseph said contact-less training and strictly observing all safety rules in accordance to the government and health experts’ directive have assured them a safe play at the course. Joseph, the country’s top amateur golfer, was spotted playing with Isiaka Daudi and John Ally a distant apart during a tee off and putting exercises. Joseph, who is the member of Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club, had to shift to Lugalo after the management of the club closed the course for 14 days. Joseph lauded Lugalo Club for strictly observing the safety rules the government officially imposed on March 17, this year. “It is very safe here since every golfer must wash hands with a soap and sanitizer,” he said. But, Tanzania’s number one lady golfer, Madina Iddi has decided to take rest as her course; Arusha Gymkhana Club has closed down all sports activities. Since March 17th this year, many golf clubs have been instituted measures that are in line with the government’s directives to reduce congregating at one place. Before getting at the Lugalo club, all golfers are required to sanitise their hands and their body temperatures taken, just to be sure they don’t have any fever. These are all good measures taken by the clubs. The R&A, the world governing body, sent some guidance on some Local Rules that clubs can adopt during these times. The first was on scorecards. Since we are no longer shaking hands, this is one of the ways infected golfers can spread the virus. Where golf competitions are still being held, the committees may choose to adopt guidelines that do not strictly adhere to the Rules to do with scorecards.