POWER connection in seven districts of Mwanza Region through Rural Electricity Agency (REA) had reached over 70 per cent by the end of June this year, it has been said. According to REA’s implementation report released by Tanesco Manager in Mwanza Region Henryfried Byabato recently at road board meeting in Mwanza City, the connection has reached 76.51 per cent. Nipo Group Limited has implemented the project since 2017 at 22,999,376,085.42 (equivalent to $3,295,711.70) whereby 174 villages are beneficiaries of the project in the region. Mr Byabato said the company had installed a small line cable of power having 626km and a big line cable of 251.23km with 313 transformers while 9,689 households were beneficiaries of the project. He said the company continued making the distribution of power equipment to various villages so that they could manage to meet the deadline of the contract in June this year. Mr Byabato noted that seven villages in Ilemela Municipal had benefitted from the power, while in Sengerema District 19 villages had been connected to power, Kwimba District 14 villages were also connected to power and 18 villages in Misungwi District had also been connected to power. “In Magu District 11 villages already have been connected to power, in Ukerewe District five villages have been connected to power and in Nyamagana District three villages have been connected to power by now.” Mr Juma Abdallah from Nyamatale in Magu District thanked Tanesco for connecting power to his house, saying the service had helped them to meet some essential services. Engineer of Nipo Group Limited Hussein Said said previously they faced a shortage of electricity materials that was why there were delays, but then already they had got all necessary materials, therefore, they would finish installation by the end of the contract. “We must finish our work as the contract stipulates because we have all transformers, electrical wires, poles and meters with us, while our technicians are working day and night to ensure the work is ready by the end of the contract,” said Mr Said. Mr Juma Matondo from Kabusungu in Ilemela District commended the good job done by the contractor for connecting power to the dispensary.