FRUITFUL discussions have been going on in Young Africans between the leadership and their members over what kind of investment they would like to have in their sports club. They already have an investor in the GSM, who is also one of their own, according to the words of their Chairman, Dr Mshindo Msolla, in the sense that he is also an avid lover of the club. At that point, they are not different from their arch soccer rivals, Simba whose investor, Mohamed Dewji alias ‘MO’, is also one of their own, an avid lover of the Msimbazi Street based sports club. But the main difference between the two clubs is that while the former went (over three years ago), for a system of investment revolves around shares, in the latter club they are still discussing what form of investment their club should go for. Again, up to that point, there is nothing wrong about the direction of their discussion. But the only problem is that if they are not careful, the ‘wananchi thing’ they have been peddling around in their discussions could in the end take them nowhere, but to a cul-de-sac! For much as the GSM may be one of their own, ultimately it is business. Those behind the company, just like Mo also want to make business, while simultaneously helping their club to solve its perennial financial problems and concentrate on one and only one thing, football. Both Young Africans management and their respective members need to know that outside the RED CROSS, there are no free meals. Yes, GSM would provide them sports kits, yes, they may help them get whatever player they want, yes, they may even be ready to pay salaries for a few players. But the question is what would such a businessman get in return for the money he is spending on the club much as he is one of their own? Is that the only thing the club wants? I’m raising this question not because I have interest in the club or GSM, but I just want to caution both the club’s leadership and members that there is nothing as good as working things officially, through contracts, than what they are doing. Unlike Simba, Young Africans already have a problem, some of their members who are also strong businessmen have been singing the ‘the wananchi thing’ and these are no small businessmen they are as big as GSM. What does this mean? Ultimately they could have a problem in getting a strong, local investor who could help the club out of its perennial financial problem. Yanga leadership and members need to ask themselves one question, and that is, how is this ‘wananchi thing’ which they have had since the club was formed over eight decades, going to help them out of their present financial problems when it had failed to help them in the last eight decades? Let us not forget one thing. Simba had also had the same problem, ‘the wananchi thing’ which has to date refused to go away, but it is the same ‘wananchi thing’ that former Taifa Stars’ coach, Syllersaid Mziray had spoken about, after conducting research on both clubs, which have benefited, for years, through gate collection. In fact, both clubs need to borrow a leaf form most of English clubs. Most of them are wholly owned by investors, but that has not stopped fans, not even members, to have a say in those clubs. Why and how? Fans will fill up to the brim a stadium when their club X plays against club Y as long as their club X win their matches. And the same thing could be said about club Y. Fans would call for the purchase of new, better players, but if the investor does not do that and the team continues to lose; his or her team will play in empty stadia! Yet British soccer fans of any club, from Liverpool to Manchester United and from Arsenal to Manchester City don’t own the foregoing clubs which have boards and not members. And yet they have been doing very well, winning all sorts of silverware from local league to international tournaments that includes, among others, the UEFA Champions League and World Club Championship. Again, let us ask ourselves another question, do we have strong fans comparable to what British clubs have, clubs like Liverpool, Man United and others? Fans, who boost their clubs’ finance through the purchase of clubs’ products? If the answer to the foregoing questions is an affirmative No, then let’s stop this ‘wananchi thing’ and go for the whole hog. Let us get investors who would help our clubs get out of their present perennial financial problems. My parting shot to the Young Africans leadership and members is; let’s us, for once, get serious with investment. Personally, I would like to see Young Africans get to level similar or even better than that of their arch soccer rivals, Simba so that this country can really have competition. Without competition between and among the two clubs, Tanzania will get nowhere. Strong competition between the two clubs would trigger competition between and among other clubs and Tanzania will benefit from such competition. It is now or never! Let us not forget that Yanga are talking about it now because Simba went into it. Competition always begets competition