YOUNG Africans defender cum midfielder Said Juma Ally alias ‘Makapu’ has credited his major transformation to training tactics by Head Coach Luc Eymael. He expressed his happiness to play under Eymael. Since the arrival of the B elgian trainer, Makapu has transformed and has become a key member of Yanga squad. He has also earned a recall in the national team, Taifa Stars squad. “It is patience and personal effort that has given me this success. I have been steadfastly focused on doing the best because the coach trusts me so much,” he told the ‘ Daily News’ during his brief tour at the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) headquarters along Mandela Expressway in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. “F or many years, I was a fringe player and even rarely sat on the bench, but the arrival of Eymael has transformed my career as I play regularly now as a central defender not as a midfielder. “I have been selected in the fist team squad more often and it has improved my ability and quality,” he said. Makapu joined Yanga then under B razilian Head Coach Marcio Maximo as an 18 years youngster in 2015 from ‘Young Taifa Stars’ which was popularly known as ‘Taifa Stars Maboresho’ squad. Under Maximo, he became a regular starter as a holding midfielder but faded as years went by. However, under Eymael, the towering Z anzibari has rediscovered his footing as a key Yanga defender, shaking off competitions from veteran central defenders Kelvin Yondani and Andrew Vincent. With glimpse of joy, Makapu explained that the coach has shown confidence in him and has always acknowledged his talent and efforts he puts during trainings and games. Eymael arrived at Yanga on January 20th this year and has included Makapu in his first team squad in more than 10 games that they have played since his arrival and his performance has been outstanding. Reacting to rumours of leaving Yanga, Makapu insisted that he still has a oneyear valid contract with the Jangwani Street side and he remains a bonafide Yanga player unless otherwise. Makapu added that he will be in a position to talk about his next move once his current contract expires. His dream is to play outside of Tanzania, believing that football outside Tanzania or Africa is a sign of success and growth.