SINCE I am not a particularly intelligent person, and to be specific a citizen of a certain country which I believe has an overdose of intelligent sons and daughters of God, I often make a lot of fuss about nothing. You may not believe me, and God bless you for that, I occasionally watch a neighbour’s goat and imagine that, in the course of gazing at me, and seems to smile as if it has seen a long-lost friend, it is thinking that I am a stupid creature. “Why,” I imagine the goat quizzing its brain, “is this creature with two legs less than mine, wearing clothes instead of moving around naked the way it was born? Who does it wish to impress?’’ I am also imagining that the goat (which I am remotely suspecting might be at least slightly more intelligent than I am) could have a valid point. What the goat doesn’t realise, though, is that, when a cruel person does the necessary to its neck (I’m afraid of using the word slaughter), and a slightly less one roasts it, and the name ‘ndafu’ is donated unto it, it becomes very sweet food. Although I am somewhat intelligence-starved, I own bits of intelligence that enable me to know not-so-complicated things. If you asked me what two plus two amounts to, without my having asked you to ask me a simple question, I would confidently donate four to you as the answer. But if you asked me how many litres of petrol a “choka mbaya” secondhand car would massacre to transport you from Dar to the so-called “ Mji Kasoro Bahari” (an ocean-less town) I would wonder if you are wholly okay upstairs. The little intelligence that has miraculously survived in the tiny brain housed in my cabbage- like head informs me that, I remotely know of the William Shakespearean idea of the world being a stage, and we, human beings, being actors. I am no exception, unless I were to “de-human being-lise” myself. I am part of the show. Those are the circumstances under which I have found myself being an actor in a deeply disturbing scenario. I am one of the millions of the Creator’s creations who are emotionally harassed by a deadly creature that, comparisonwise, a creature called “sisimizi” is fat on a gigantic scale. This creature, a disease, has revolutionised the lifestyles of virtually all God’s children world-wide. The tiny enemy neither respects nor fears anyone or anything. If there had been a military option, it would have been machine-gunned to death. But that’s out of both the question and the answer, because the person with the machine-gun wouldn’t see it. Our hearts are tiny, and yet, paradoxically, our hearts are burdened by tons of anxiety that it injects unto them. On top of, as opposed to below that, it has forced us to adopt lifestyles to which we hadn’t been accustomed. For me, coping with them are more difficult than the Form Six exams I was foolish enough to do in the early 70s and failed FLAT; All in capital letters, as opposed to flat. One of the first non-memorable, as opposed to memorable nasty experiences caused by the tiny enemy was how a naughty friend of mine recently described it. Paradoxically, he is called Bonge, but is as slim as girls who feature in Miss This, or Miss That. After exchanging greetings, we started hurling insults at the disease, which, coincidentally, we both described as ‘gonjwa” as opposed to “ugonjwa’, to denote its deadliness. Bonge then donated to the disease, the “qualifier” BK-Babu Kubwa, which means extremely dangerous, but which happens to be the short form for Bukoba, the beloved home city (sorry, township; sorry, town) of my beloved ancestral Kagera Region. As automatically as a bullet ejects from a gun when a police officer is in the process of teaching an escaping prisoner an unforgettable lesson, I donated an unprintable insult to Bonge. His attempt to donate a punch to my ‘baracoalised’ face scored zero marks, as he slipped and fell into a muddy road. I sprinted to safety at the speed of a baby antelope. Close to my home, I met a fellow old man, Chris. Almost weeping due to embarrassment, he narrated how, “thanks” to “baracoalisation” of faces, he committed a sin over which he is sure he would never go to heaven! Strolling back home on an early evening, he seduced a young lady who, “baracoalisation notwithstanding, he assumed was very beautiful! When she removed the facemask and he realised that she was his prospective daughterin- law, he collapsed but subsequently recovered. He is now facing a social crisis that is worse than the medical one created by Gonjwa BK. wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633