THE government has directed SUMA-JKT contracted to build National Electoral Commission (NEC) offices in Dodoma to speed up and hand over the buildings by May 30, 2020. Issuing the directive, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Ms Jenister Mhagama, on Monday, while touring the project, further said she was satisfied with their quality. “I am satisfied by your construction pace to build the three main buildings,” she further said, while meeting NEC Director of Elections, Dr Wilson Mahera, who in response said they are in advance stage to relocate to the city from Dar es Salaam. As the country gears for the next General Elections in October this year, it is expected that NEC will run the activities at the new offices in the country’s capital. The construction of the new NEC headquarters in the city is being carried out by SUMA-JKT, after the initial contractor-Tanzania Building Agency’s contract was nullified for failure to cope with terms agreed in the hire. After bringing a new contract that was signed between SUMA-JKT and NEC on December 24, 2019, where the former was expected to hand them over not later than April 30. After touring the site, the Minister received a progress report from SUMA-JKT’s Operation Commander, Major Philimon James Komanya and Ardhi University Project Manager, Godwin Maro, who drafted the drawings for the buildings. According to Operation Commander after signing the contract, he dispatched his team to the site on January 2, 2020, where first they cleared the area as early mapped by TBA to build a four-storey structure and dismantled it to construct an eight-storey one. “This was done between January 3rd and 16th and on 17th the same month, we started putting up a fence and as we speak, the construction has reached 80 per cent stage,’’ he pointed out. On his part, Mr Maro, who is a Quantity Surveyor by profession pleaded for an extension of time, saying that by April 30th, the building would be in final stage before handover. In response, the minister issued a one-month extension period to May 30th this year, saying: “If you were able to do this good work in three months’ time, I believe that if I add you another month you will be able to hand over the buildings.” In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ NEC Director of Elections said that SUMA-JKT was still in the limits of the contract, however, they deserve another month to finish work. Commenting, the Head of National Service, Brigadier General Charles Mbuge, said his team was fully committed and would ensure that all projects assigned are completed efficiently on time. “The army works 24 hours that is why you have witnessed many of our projects being handed over to our clients on time,’’ he said. On his part, Suma JKT Project Manager, Eng. Lazaro Masanja, said the minister’s directives would be fully implemented, adding: “We have the best workforce and experienced for such construction, hence we shall work and measure with a client’s funds.” Explaining, he said new building will have three separate rooms identified as the main building, Results Centre and a Warehouse Centre to preserve crucial documents.