A FOOTBALL analyst, Ally Mayai has advised young players to focus on their career growth rather than their financial aspirations. Speaking with “Sunday News” yesterday, Mayai said that lack of quality managers and agents with better connections to link players with different clubs in and outside the country, hinders the success of young players’ career. “Football now requires a network; player’s agent must have a good network to help his player get good teams. When an agent misses the network it leads the player to have less chances to play in good teams or have a successful international career,” revealed Mayai. He added agents and managers have the responsibility to help the growth and development of players in and outside of the field. The former Young Africans and Taifa Stars midfielder insisted that if a player lacks proper guidance, it will certainly be difficult to prosper in his career. “A good agent does the talking with the club not the player but a proper guidance from the agent/manager is much needed for player(s) to succeed. The focus must always be in helping players to keep their discipline, proper character and focus in developing their career,” he said. He said it was unfortunate that most agents and managers mainly look for financial gains and forget the player’s growth. He said if they (agents and managers) were to consider the player as a commodity, it would help in growth of the players’ talents and benefit both a player and his agent/manager. “The goal should always be to make sure a player is playing to the optimum and not to prioritize money…if the agent puts money first, there is a risk of the player to forget his mandatory objectives,” pointed out Mayai. He was reacting to news that a national team forward Farid Musa is planning to leave Spanish Segunda Division side Tenerife B after being benched and missing a place in the senior squad. “I have been doing well but I have not been given a chance to play. Right now my contract is edging close to the end and my agent is working on it,” said Farid. He added; “I think it is time to find another team, I see no reason to remain at Tenerife, while I do not get the chance to play.”.