THE government has approved three prototype designs for permanent structures of ministerial offices at Mtumba suburb in the capital city, Dodoma. The construction process, which is scheduled to begin anytime this month, will be completed between two and three years, depending on the availability of funds. Tanzania Building Agency is the project executing outfit. Its Director of Consultancy, Arch. Wenslaus, Kizaba, told the ‘Daily News’ exclusively that the cabinet and the Inter- Ministerial Technical Committee (IMTC) under Chief Secretary (PS), John Kijazi, have given the agency the green light to advance to the second phase of the project. The structures will be distinguished in three designs chiefly to accommodate largeto- medium-to-small ministries. Large ministries like Regional Administration and Local Governments and Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and children would have the tallest structures. Details revealed by the public landlord indicated that they would have a minimum of seven floors. Construction is scheduled to kick off during the 2020/21financial year. Five out of 20 ministries have confirmed to have sufficient funds to begin construction work as early as September this year, Arch. Kizaba said. “In February, we received a report from five ministries who want to embark on the project during the third quarter of this year,” he said. He further explained that the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works formed a task force to review the total cost of each structure. “The task force also submitted the report at the end of March this year; This means we will start the process within this month.” The process includes inviting contractors who would be building the permanent structures adjacent to the existing buildings of each ministry at Mtumba. Other activities such as the construction of a tarmac road network had begun. TBA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Daudi Kondoro told ‘Daily News’ that three prototypes which had been approved by the state considered a standardisation of some major offices like those of the permanent secretaries and their deputies as well as ministers and their deputies. “We understand these positions are usually not permanent and the president can make reshuffles at any time... we needed to agree on the fact that an option of each minister or PS cannot be met as we may keep the construction work anytime there is a reshuffle,” he said, further explaining: “We agreed that the size and furniture of a given office should be the same to ensure that if one minister is transferred to a different ministry, he or she find a similar office size.” TBA had spent at least 1bn/-to build the current structure of each ministry. It says the structures were temporary to only accommodate ministers, deputy ministers, permanent secretaries, deputy permanent secretaries, heads of department and senior government officials. The new structures will accommodate all officials in each ministry, the TBA boss elaborated. He assured that the designs of the structures were attractive and had considered all public requirements for the modern age society. The structures will be distinguished by colours from one ministry to other and have been grouped into two zones, one accommodating ten ministries and the other, 12 ministries.