WITH the current season put on hold due to coronavirus pandemic, clubs have begun setting reinforcement plans, ahead of the next Mainland Premier League season. Similarly, players have also started planning their future as report suggest that Coastal Union defender Bakari ‘Nondo’ Mwamnyeto is heading to Simba next season. For the past few months, Simba have been strongly linked to win the signature of the Taifa Stars key defender, as they seek to reinforce their defensive line for next season duels. In a recent interview, the defender said he is 90 per cent certain to play CAF Champions League games next season with many pundits believing that he will land at the Msimbazi Street based club. On several occasions, Mwamnyeto has been heard via different media platforms that he wants to face a new challenge in the top flight next season with Simba being his favourite destination. According to reports from within the club, Head Coach, Sven Vandenbroeck has already handed over his recommendations to the management on which players should be recruited for the coming season. The Belgian trainer has also reportedly recommended to the management to loan out players, who have not been regular starters in the first team but still have valid contract with the club. In a related development, Simba midfielder Ibrahim Ajib yesterday launched a campaign to start supplying various items to help orphans during this period of coronavirus outbreak. “I have decided to reach out to orphans as one step to help them through this tough period we are facing and I urge others to follow suit not because we have many things but rather to share the little things we have with them,” he said. He announced that to begin with, his campaign will benefit over 320 orphans in six orphanages in the country, while disclosing some of the items to be disbursed as food, sanitisers, buckets and soaps among others. Ajib’s Agent, Rahim Abbas launched the player’s campaign in Dar es Salaam yesterday, to support orphans. Abbas said that Ajib is doing this in collaboration with some businessmen. “Some people are not taking coronavirus seriously…it’s a very dangerous pandemic and people should support the government in one way or the other in the fight against it. We should support those in need, so as they can achieve their dreams like being football stars,” he said. Ajib has called upon his fellow football players as well as leaders to help and support the government by any means in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, Simba issued a public notice yesterday, condemning individuals who enter into agreements/contracts with different entities using the club’s name. “It has come to our attention that certain individuals have entered into agreements/ contracts with different entities claiming to be employees/representatives of Simba Sports Club Company Limited (SSCCL). “We would like to inform the general public that Simba has not empowered any individual or group of individuals to act as their representatives to execute or to enter any agreement on its behalf. Further, kindly be informed that all agreements/ contracts with SSCCL must be executed by Simba, at the offices of Simba,” reads a statement issued by Chief Executive Officer, Senzo Mazingisa. Mazingisa further said in a statement that Simba advises the public to beware of such individuals and to report individuals who pose as Simba representatives for the purpose of soliciting funds or acquisition of property. “We condemn this and seek your cooperation to bring such individuals to our notice through the office of the CEO,” he said.