YOUNG Africans striker, David Molinga said if he will get a chance to play all remaining 11 games for his side in the Mainland Premier League, he is capable to score six to eight goals. Molinga is the current top goal scorer for Yanga, until the league was suspended due to Covid-19 scare after netting eight goals but he still believes that he can score more, provided he plays in the remaining matches. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Molinga insisted that if he will be given that privilege to play in all the remaining 11 clashes, he will score more goals. “I strongly believe that provided I get the chance to play in all remaining games, I will score six to eight goals since I know my ability in front of the goal. My target is to finish the season with at least 15 goals,” he said. However, the Congolese striker said no player in the world can maintain the same good consistency throughout the season, saying performance is usually unpredictable. “Even great players like Lionel Messi (Barcelona) do not have the same consistency of producing good performance throughout the seasons…sometimes their work rate drops and that is what football is all about. They also miss goals during matches,” he said. He then disclosed that he was surprised when the team's former Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera was sacked, saying he is one of the best football coaches on the continent. Zahera was the one who recommended the signing of Molinga but his playing time has been limited ever since the Congolese trainer parted ways with the club to pave way for the incumbent Head Coach, Luc Eymael. In another development, Yanga winger Erick Kabamba has promised to produce remarkable performance when the league resumes, saying joining the squad in the mid of the season contributed to his underperformance. “In most cases, when you join the squad midway into the season, it takes some time to adapt the playing style and be able to convince the coach to use you in the games,” he said. Again, Kabamba said during this period when the league has been paused, he is involving himself in various training programmes to remain in good shape before the contest restarts. “I want to prove how good I am when the league resumes and to perform better than ever before,” the Zambian player said while praising the country's top flight league that it is good in comparison with the Swaziland league, where he played before landing at Jangwani street based club. Yanga remain third on the 20-team league table with 51 points, three points’ adrift second placed Azam FC and 20 points behind leaders Simba SC, who are fighting hard to retain the title for third time in a row. Yanga posted a 1-1 draw against Namungo FC in their last match at Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi before the league was suspended as one of the precaution measures to avoid the spread of the Coronavirus.