AHMED Abdulrahman Ali, 30, is enjoying good time after completing ‘Air Conditioning and Refrigeration training at Karume Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) which operates under the Sate University of Zanzibar (SUZA). He said he could not get a job after completing secondary education and he decided to go for vocational training so that he could eventually employ himself. “My dream was to become a pilot, but it did not materialise as my results in Mathematics and Physics were not good,” he said. “My friends, teachers, and parents encouraged me to go for vocational training so that I can later be self employed,” “With vocational skills or technical studies, I was certain I can make it without being employed. Yes now I have started earning money from my job of installing or repair AC. I advise other youth including the graduates without jobs to go for vocational training.” After three years says he was now confident with his job, “I have acquired enough hands-on skills and I am able to repair and install air condition system-in residential houses and business centres.” Khadija Mussa Omar, 23, is another vocational training beneficiary who is now earning money from making bread and supply to different shops, “With such skills, I am optimistic that the future is bright. I plan to expand my business and employ at least ten people. I advice my fellow youth who fail to continue with education and graduates without job, not to get disappointed, there are still many opportunities in vocational training.” Ms Omar is not the only young woman who is now proud of opting for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). She said vocational training was also helping to debunk gender stereotypes as both young men and women were learning similar programmes. “People think men cannot be best chefs and female cannot do mechanical tasks because woman’s place is in the kitchen. But it has been proved to be just a stereotype.” This year’s vocational training week held at the ‘Mapinduzi Square’, was used as an opportunity for leaders led by the Minister for Education and Vocational Training, Riziki Pembe Juma to promote vocational training as workable solution in addressing lack of jobs. Ms Juma said during the ‘Vocational Training week’ that students, the youth and teachers should take the training serious because many will be self-employed and reduce unemployment burden in the country. The Ministry of Education through its ‘Zanzibar Vocational Training Authority (ZVTA)’ is promoting vocational schools in a bid to create jobs and fight poverty. Ms Juma says the government is improving the training centres because once youths are well trained, will contribute to socio-economic development. Ms Pembe says currently the vocational training are at Mwanakwerekwe and Mkokotoni in Unguja Island, and Vitongoji in Pemba Island, but the government is constructing two new centres at Daya- Mtambwe in Pemba and Makunduchi in Unguja. Due to growing lack jobs for both out-of-school youth and graduates from higher learning institutions, many countries see ‘Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET)’ as a main engine to support employment promotion for youth especially through development of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs).” President Ali Mohamed Shein has repeatedly mentioned that job opportunities in the government are limited annually, therefore it cannot cope with increasing demand for employment and that in search for solution, the government has been encouraging vocational training and private sector to open up investments that will results in job creation. Zanzibar has made remarkable progress in the past decade, particularly in providing free education and health services, but continuing lack of jobs and poverty necessitates more efforts to be done. It is estimated that more than 17 percent of the youth are jobless.