THE Judiciary of Tanzania has started implementing the major project for construction of six buildings which will house the Integrated Justice Centers in five regions in the country, a move aimed at moving judicial services closer to the people. Head of the Judiciary Delivery Unit (JDU), Principal Resident Magistrate Zahra Maruma, said in a statement issued by the Directorate of Information and Communication the Tanzanian Judiciary that the construction works started since January 2020 and are expected to be completed within 10 months. She explained that the buildings involved would have four floors and would include all levels of courts from the High Court to the Primary Court level as well as offices of some of the judicial stakeholders, notably the police, social welfare, advocates and prosecutors. According to the Head of the Judiciary Delivery Unit, the project for construction of the buildings has started to be implemented in the cities of Arusha, Mwanza, Dodoma, Dar es Salaam, in particular in Kinondoni and Temeke districts, as well as Morogoro Region. "The purpose of keeping all levels of courts within the same building as well as the stakeholders' offices is to facilitate and enhance the effectiveness of rendering of justice services," she said in the statement published in the Judiciary's website recently. Ms Maruma added another purpose for the project would include reducing the cost for wananchi of pursuing justice services in different offices where one would be required to spend money and time in following up judicial services. "Access to collaborative services in these buildings will give the public the opportunity to spend less time accessing judicial services and increase the time to engage in productive and social activities rather than spending much time in different court corridors to pursue justice services," she said. The buildings are being constructed by the Judiciary of Tanzania in collaboration with the World Bank through the Citizen-Centric Judicial Modernisation of Justice Service Delivery. The aim of the Tanzanian Judiciary is to ensure that there are high courts in each region, resident magistrate's courts in each region and district courts in each district, as well as primary courts in each division depending on availability of financial resources. The World Bank has indicated willingness to increase its funding for implementation of the Judicial Service Improvement Project due to the successful implementation of ongoing infrastructure projects during the first phase expected to be completed in the 2020/2021 financial year. During the four years of the fifth phase of government, the Judiciary of Tanzania has successfully completed 42 projects for the construction and renovation of court buildings at all levels from the High Court to the Primary Courts. Chief Court Administrator, Mr Mathias Kabunduguru, is in record stating that the construction works have been implemented in various parts of the country with the aim of solving the existing deficiencies on court buildings, as well as improving and moving judicial services closer to the people. He said further that the Judiciary completed the construction of five Resident Magistrate's Courts in Manyara, Geita, Njombe, Simiyu and Coast regions. Within the same period of four years, he said, the Judiciary successfully completed the construction of 16 district court buildings. Mr Kabunduguru pointed out that such buildings are in Bagamoyo, Kigamboni, Mkuranga, Ilala, Kibaha, Babati and Bariadi. Other buildings include Chato, Geita, Bukombe, Ruangwa, Kilwa Masoko, Bariadi, District Courts, Kondoa, Longido, Chunya and Kasulu District Courts. On the part of primary courts, he stated, the Judiciary succeeded in constructing new state of the art court buildings at Kawe (Dar es Salaam), Mkunya (Newala), Msanzi (Sumbawanga), Mtowisa (Sumbawanga), Uyole (Mbeya) and Ngerengere (Morogoro). Furthermore, he said, they completed construction projects for primary courts that were delayed at Iguguno (Singida), Batso (Kondoa), Wasso (Loliondo), Old Korogwe and Magoma (Korogwe), Mvomero (Morogoro), Karatu (Arusha), Robanda (Serengeti), Itinje (Simiyu), Totowe and Mlowo (Songwe).