THE government said on Wednesday that it is committed to provide trainings to communities located around forest reserves on proper ways of preserving such areas. Minister for Tourism and Natural Resources, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla told Parliament that the training and support targets to improve the communities’ participation in forest product businesses, tree planting, as well as provision of beehives. The minister’s clarification followed concern raised by Special Seats MP, Oliver Semuguruka (CCM) that some villages covered by forest reserves have not been benefiting from the natural resources. Referring to Biharamulo, the MP said 54 percent of the district is under forest reserve. She said villagers along the forests need support from the government through the Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources. The Minister said Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) is implementing a corporate social responsibility policy that strategically seeks to support forest village communities to benefit from existing resources. He went on detailing that the state agency has been supporting the same communities to participate in various economic activities, including beekeeping. A total of 3,848 beehives have been fixed in Biharamulo forest reserve. The hives have been provided to 30 groups, which are made of 805 members. Biharamulo forest reserve is surrounded by 17 villages, while Nyantakara forest is surrounded by ten other villages. The district has a total of two forest reserves. The Minister said the state has further supported Nemba Primary School, Biharamulo entrepreneurs group—BiDiG and the district prison in planting trees. During 2018/19, the district council received 8.25m/-as dividend from revenue collected as part of tourism businesses. “We are also planning to distribute 60,000 tree seedlings to 115 villagers who engage in forest businesses,” he said. He, however, acknowledged that the support hasn’t been sufficient to sustain the communities. He said TFS is doing everything in its capacity to ensure all communities along the reserved forests benefit from such areas.