GENERAL Petroleum Company on Thursday in Dar es Salaam donated various coronavirus protective items to Temeke Municipality in efforts to fight spread of the disease in the area. Leading the donation in their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Hayat Khan said the spirit to assist was part of the mission’s dictum of “Together we conquer.” Citing the donations as bottles of sanitizers to 142 streets in the Municipality, masks and unspecified number of gloves, he added that the assistance would continue in efforts to help the government to tame the disease in the public and institutions, including Hospitals, which treat quarantined people. Mr Khan noted that the plough back was part of the company’s expressing gratitude to the community, where they do business of manufacturing and marketing of lubricant products. Receiving the items for his Municipality, Mayor Abdallah Chaurembo said they would be distributed to Temeke Regional Hospital, Mbagala Hospital, Wards and Streets with an appeal that they should be strictly used and not misused or sold. “May I appeal to the Councillors also to make sure that the 200 bottles of sanitizers, 600 pieces of masks and gloves issued to them are rightly take to the grassroots, where there may be a dire need,” he said. While thanking the company for the donation, the Mayor said the investor interest to plough back in the community in their CSR was a mature way of showing solidarity with the government in times of difficulties. “The government alone can not do it, but it is good we are surrounded by companies like General Petroleum in the Municipality showing support and I understand, you are preparing to also provide  Iftar, we wish you all the best,” said Mr Chaurembo. On his part, Temeke Municipal Medical Officer  Dr Gwamaka Mwabulambo said, despite them receiving the assistance, still appealed to the residents to keep off crowded places, where necessary. “People should always maintain a one metre social distance, frequently wash their hands with soap or sanitize hands, but above all keep off unnecessary crowded places,” added the medic. 