WE live hectic, stressful, constantly- connected lifestyles that make rest and relaxation a real challenge. Whether it’s the never- ending current health news, political, financial uncertainty, or simply balancing daily work and personal responsibilities, people are hungry for natural products that can help them manage daily stress and sleep issues. To fit everything in, we often sacrifice sleep. But sleep, like nutrition and physical activity, is a critical determinant of health and well-being. Sleep is a basic requirement for our overall health and development. Sleep loss and untreated sleep disorders influence basic patterns of behavior that negatively affect family health and interpersonal relationships. Sleep helps you feel rested each day and while you’re sleeping, your brain and body don’t just shut down. Internal organs and processes are hard at work throughout the night. Sleep services all aspects of our body in one way or another: molecular, energy balance, as well as intellectual function, alertness and mood. When you’re tired, you can’t function at your best so sleep helps you think more clearly, have quicker reflexes and focus better. The fact is, when we look at wellrested people, they’re operating at a different level than people trying to get by on 1 or 2 hours less nightly sleep. Loss of sleep impairs your higher levels of reasoning, problem- solving and attention to detail and tired people tend to be less productive at work. They’re at a much higher risk for traffic accidents. Lack of sleep also influences your mood, which can affect how you interact with others. A sleep deficit over time can even put you at greater risk for developing depression. Note that sleep isn’t just essential for the brain; it also affects almost every tissue in our bodies such as growth and stress hormones, our immune system, appetite, breathing, blood pressure and cardiovascular health. Research shows that lack of sleep increases the risk for obesity, heart disease and infections. Throughout the night, your heart rate, breathing rate and blood pressure rise and fall, a process that may be important for cardiovascular health. Your body releases hormones during sleep that help repair cells and control the body’s use of energy. These hormone changes can affect your body weight. Lack of sleep can produce diabetic-like conditions in otherwise healthy people. A good night’s sleep consists of 4 to 5 sleep cycles. Each cycle includes periods of deep sleep and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, when we dream. As the night goes on, the portion of that cycle that is in REM sleep increases. It turns out that this pattern of cycling and progression is critical to the biology of sleep. Although personal needs vary, on average, adults need 7 to 8 hours of sleep per night. Babies typically sleep about 16 hours a day while young children need at least 10 hours of sleep, teenagers also need at least 9 hours. To attain the maximum restorative benefits of sleep, getting a full night of quality sleep is important. Sleep can be disrupted by many things. Stimulants such as caffeine or certain medications can keep you up. Distractions such as electronics especially the light from TVs, cell phones and tablets can prevent you from falling asleep. As people get older, they may not get enough sleep because of illness, medications or sleep disorders. Avoid alcohol, cigarettes, and heavy meals in the evening. Alcohol, cigarettes andcaffeine can disrupt sleep. Eating big or spicy meals can cause discomfort from indigestion that can make it hard to sleep. If you can, avoid eating large meals for two to three hours before bedtime. Try a light snack 45 minutes before bed if you’re still hungry. The two most common sleep disorders are insomnia and sleep apnea. People with insomnia have trouble falling or staying asleep. Anxiety about falling asleep often makes the condition worse. Most of us have occasional insomnia. But chronic insomnia lasting at least 3 nights per week for more than a month can trigger serious daytime problems such as exhaustion, irritability and difficulty concentrating. Sleep disorders can cause many different problems. Keep in mind that it’s normal to have trouble sleeping every now and then. Common signs of sleep disorders include: Trouble falling or staying asleep, Still feeling tired after a good night’s sleep, Sleepiness during the day that makes it difficult to do everyday activities, like driving a car or concentrating at work, Frequent loud snoring, Pauses in breathing or gasping while sleeping, Itchy feelings in your legs or arms at night that feel better when you move or massage the area and Trouble moving your arms and legs when you wake up. Common therapies include relaxation and deep-breathing techniques. Sometimes medicine is prescribed. But consult a doctor before trying even over-thecounter sleep pills, as they may leave you feeling unrefreshed in the morning. People with sleep apnea have a loud, uneven snore (although not everyone who snores has apnea). Breathing repeatedly stops or becomes shallow. If you have apnea, you’re not getting enough oxygen, and your brain disturbs your sleep to open your windpipe. Apnea can leave you feeling tired and moody. You may have trouble thinking clearly. Also, apnea affects the vessels that lead to the brain so there is a higher risk of stroke associated with it. If you have mild sleep apnea, you might try sleeping on your side, exercising or losing weight to reduce the symptoms. If you snore chronically and wake up choking or gasping for air, and feel that you’re sleepy during the day, tell your doctor and get evaluated. Good sleep is critical to your health. To make each day a safe, productive one, take steps to make sure you regularly get a good night’s sleep.