PROCEDURAL irregularities have saved a father, Issa Nambaluka, from remaining behind bars for 30 years for incest after allegedly having sex with his own daughter aged 14 year. This followed the decision by the Court of Appeal to rule in favour of Nambaluka, the appellant, after allowing his appeal he had lodged to challenge the judgment given by the High Court in upholding the findings of the trial court. “In the event, the appeal is hereby allowed. The appellant's conviction is quashed and the sentence is set aside. We consequently order his immediate release from prison unless he is otherwise lawfully held,” the Justices Augustine Mwarija, Mwanaisha Kwariko and Lugano Mwandambo declared. When determining the appeal, they noted that the appellant's conviction was solely based on the evidence of the daughter, who was at the time of giving her evidence, was a child of tender age, that is, not more than 14 years, as provided for under Section 127(4) of the Evidence Act. The justices pointed out that the procedure for taking the evidence of a child of tender age is provided for under section 127(2) of the Law of Evidence Act. Such provision reads, “A child of tender age may give evidence without taking an oath or making an affirmation, but shall before giving evidence, promise to tell the truth to the court and not to tell lies.” They said that a child of tender age may give evidence after taking oath or making affirmation or without oath or affirmation that in the situation, where a child witness is to give evidence without oath or affirmation, he or she must make a promise to tell the truth and undertake not to tell lies. The justices further observed that the girl gave her evidence on affirmation, but the record does not reflect that she understood the nature of oath. Under the current position of the law, they said, if the child witness does not understand the nature of oath, she or he can still give evidence without taking oath or making an affirmation but must promise to tell the truth and not to tell lies. “In the circumstances therefore, we agree with both the appellant and the Senior State Attorney that in this case, the procedure used to take (the girl’s) evidence contravened the provisions of Section 127 (2) of the Evidence Act,” they said. As a result, the justices expunged from the record her evidence, pointing out that since the appellant's conviction was solely based on the evidence of his daughter, the effect of expunging such testimony rendered the prosecution case lacking a leg to stand on. The appellant is a biological father of the child, who was at the material time, a Standard VI pupil. She was living with the appellant and her step mother. This was because her biological mother and the appellant had divorced. Sometime in January 2017, the child showed reluctance in continuing to stay with her father. She approached her uncle and asked him to provide her with her mother's telephone number. Having got the telephone number, the child called and asked her mother to arrange for transfer to another school in Mtwara. The child's intention was to leave her father's residence and shift to Mtwara to stay with her mother. Incidentally, the appellant learnt about the arrangement which was being made by the child's mother through the assistance of the uncle and in turn, reacted by halting the process on account that the child’s school administration informed him that the transfer of standard VI and VII pupils was prohibited. Meanwhile, the child became sick and failed to attend school. In the midst of these incidences, information reached the police that the child might have been subjected to frequent sexual assaults by her father thus the cause for her intention to leave her father's residence and join her mother at Mtwara. On that information, the police conducted investigations which resulted into the levelling of the charge against the appellant. In his defence, the appellant did not deny that the girl is his biological daughter. He, however, denied the allegation that, he had a carnal knowledge of her. According to his evidence, on January 25, 2017 he was arrested at his residence and taken to the Police Station, where he was informed of the offence with which he was later charged. At the conclusion of the trial, the trial court found the appellant guilty and he was convicted and sentenced to 30 years imprisonment and as well ordered to pay 500,000/-as compensation to the child.