EDUCATION stakeholders have welcomed the government’s initiative of helping students continue with classes by adopting distance learning through media outlets to cope up with ongoing closure of schools due to the Covid-19 outbreak. As the Covid-19 epidemic rages on in Tanzania, prompting the closure of schools and colleges nationwide, the government has embraced a digital education system to help students continue with their studies. According to infographics circulating in social media, the classes resumed on Monday in the State owned television and radio - Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) as well as in YouTube channels. The programme is organised by the Ministry of Education, Ministry for Regional Administration and Local Government as well as the National Examinations Council of Tanzania (NECTA). Tanzania Association of Managers and Owners of Non-Government Schools and Colleges (TAMONGSCO), among other stakeholders, on Tuesday hailed the programme, saying it was a good effort during this period when pupils and students don’t attend classes in academic institutions. Chairman of Tamongsco’s national committee, Mr Peter Nayar, told the ‘Daily News’ over the phone that the government’s intention was great. “Since we are unaware of when the pandemic would be fully contained, it’s good to engage the students with classes... it’s really a constructive initiative,” Mr Nayar argued. However, he cited one of challenges was to meet needs of all students at a time because other schools were ahead of others in covering topics, so their students might be just doing revision than going to the next topics. A teacher of Kibangu English Medium School, Mr James Bitesigirwe, remarked “Something is better than nothing. Instead of children staying idle at home this initiative would help them gain something.” Mr Bitesigirwe explained that the programme would make students remember what they had been taught in class. Parents also had a positive feedback for the programme, saying it was something that was supposed to be embraced even after the pandemic. Mr Emmanuel Kihaule, a parent residing in Dar es Salaam, said the emergence of Covid-19 had reminded pointed to the fact that the media was not mainly for politics and entertainment, could also play a major role in helping students to learn. “Home schooling is very common in some countries like Denmark, we need to develop this culture because it is possible,” he said as he thanked the government for making almost every media outlet introduce the education programme. He challenged his fellow parents to ensure that they closely supervise their children in following up teachings through the media. Another parent, Mr Isaya Makasy, said his children were always sitting near the television when classes started. “I have four children, two of whom are in secondary schools and the rest are at primary level; they all aware of the programme and they usually follow it,” he said. He was of the view that the programme was good and would hopefully bear good results in the future. According to the Chief Government Spokesperson, Dr Hassan Abbasi, since the first coronavirus case was reported on March 16, the government had implemented over forty measures and programmes, including the closure of schools and colleges, to contain the spread of the virus.