THE newly introduced Skoda Fabia proved to be fast and reliable on dusty road despite finishing fourth in Vaisakhi Rally of Arusha a fortnight ago. As claimed by its driver Gurjit Dhani, the car is one of the best rally car and very ideal for the rough competitions. He said he banks on the car to perform wonder despite finishing behind rivals Subaru and Mitsubishi. Dhani, who finished fourth overall in his ultra-fast car said the car is very stable on dusty terrain and it was just due to minor faults that he finished two minutes behind the winner and the team mate Ajminder Singh, also from Kilimanjaro. Vaisakhi Rally, according to Dhani was a Harri Singh team dominion as he and team mates dominated the podium. It was Ajiminder Singh and his brother Mandeep Singh Dhani who made it double at Arusha. The Hari Singh Rally Team begun the National Rally Championship (NRC) season with a superb team performance in Arusha after two of the team’s crews claimed two top positions. Gurjit Dhani who was navigated by Riyaz Ismail finished fourth on the debut of their Skoda Fabia Proto, just 2 seconds behind teammate Mandeep Singh Dhani with Rajpal Singh Dhani and Moses Matovu in a Subaru Impreza VAB, took 9th position. After Vaisakhi Rally, Ajminder Dhani remains firmly at the helm with 30 points. Alongside Dhani, is Manmeet Birdi who is leading the navigator’s race with 30 points. Second overall in the race is Arusha-based Gurpal Sandhu with 24 points. Sandhu, who was navigated by Zambian David Sihoka in Mitsubishi Evo, finished overall runner in Vaisakhi Rally, which also served as the season opener. Sihoka also reaped 24 points. Third overall in the race is Mandeep Dhani, also from Kilimanjaro who has reaped 21 points while the fourth slot went to Gurjit Dhani as he bagged 19 points to his name. Dhani was two points above Randeep Birdi who has carved 17 points to fill the fifth place as the sixth-placed  Jamil Shahbhai is following with 15 points. Dar es Salaam based driver Kelvin Taylor was seventh on the day after pocketing 13 points while Musa Mswaki claimed 11 points to sit on eighth place as Rajpal Dhani who pocketed 9 points, occupies the ninth position. The going was a bit hard for Kelvin Parnis who finished tenth with 7 points, only two points above Zaneal Somji who was 11th with 5 points to his name.