PREOCCUPATION with coronavirus (Covid-19) may subject more than 400,000 children and adolescents to tuberculosis (TB) in the East Africa Community (EAC) countries and others on the continent. If resources are diverted away from child and adolescent TB programmes to fight against Covid-19, the consequences for children and adolescents in the African region needing TB and multidrug-resistant TB care each year could be devastating, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease has warned. As the coronavirus pandemic continues plaguing Africa, there are concerns about its potential impact on the large number of children and adolescents living with TB infection across the region. TB is both curable and preventable, but remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality in children and adolescents and has only recently been afforded the attention that was long overdue. “There is clear overlap in the public health response required to address the coronavirus pandemic with what is already required for TB case detection, contact screening and management, and infection control. “This provides an important opportunity to integrate rather than disperse health services. The needs of children and adolescents should be considered when developing alternative methods for screening, referral and medication delivery as countries determine how to shift routine service delivery to minimise contacts in health facilities,” said Dr Grania Brigden, director of the Union’s TB Department. An estimated one million children fall ill with TB every year and one quarter of all people with TB disease in the world live in Africa. In 2018, of all the people living with HIV/Aids in the world who developed TB, 72 per cent of them were in Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa accounted for 82 per cent of all HIV/Aids-associated TB deaths that same year. The Union says the evidence to date suggests that children and adolescents (0-19 years) are less susceptible than adults to severe Covid-19, the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2. Indeed, the number of TB-related deaths in children and adolescents globally in 2020-around a quarter of a million– will far exceed those due to Covid-19. Although the actual primary risk of coronavirus infection in young people with co-morbidities such as TB, HIV/Aids or severe malnutrition is as yet uncertain, it is clear that there is the potential for negative indirect or secondary consequences of the coronavirus pandemic on this already vulnerable population. There are also concerns about the impact of Covid-19 on recent efforts to scale up TB preventive therapy, particularly in child contacts of less than five years or children and adolescents living with HIV/Aids. Efforts to secure supply chains of needed medical equipment, laboratory commodities and medications for this vulnerable population will be critical to averting negative impacts. “Children, particularly those living with HIV/Aids, are at a high risk of developing TB following infection and of experiencing severe outcomes due to TB. Yet, only a third of all eligible children are getting access to the TB preventive therapy that could protect them from developing TB,” said Dr Brigden. The Union’s Child and Adolescent TB Centre of Excellence, in collaboration with the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Global TB Branch is working with governments in sub-Saharan Africa to support and develop strong and good quality services for children and adolescents with TB at all times, including now as countries prepare to address the Covid-19 pandemic.