MOROGORO Gymkhana golf club course of Morogoro Region is facing several challenges during this period in which the country is battling with the spread of coronavirus pandemic. This current situation is giving hard time for golfers, who are usually turning up for rounds of practice. Due to the pandemic, the club has prevented members to flock in for free golf rounds and to make matters worse, part of course is in an unplayable condition due to heavy rains. Former Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) Honorary Secretary, Dickson Sika said that they are grateful that club did not close the course; instead, they are doing everything possible to follow advice by the government and health authorities in prevention against COVID-19 spread. Sika said that the club has arranged programme that allows only two players at a time to take rounds of golf, which is good. Morogoro Gymkhana like other courses did not close the course because they understand that golf is a kind of sports that easily allow golfers to keep distance. However, the management of the club has taken important measure to ensure golfers are playing their practice rounds under strict precautions. “The club has set prevention measure to ensure each one remain safe at this difficult situation. The club only allows two players at one time to enter the course for practice, we also make sure we follow instructions including washing hands with running water and soap and use sanitizer,” he said. He added that both golfers and their caddies have to follow all prevention directives to guarantee each one safety. However, for the past few days, golfers have been practicing in a difficult situation especially at two (no. 4 and 5 holes) of nine holes, as some parts of the course are submerged into pools of water due to ongoing rains. Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) Vice-President Anita Siwale has confirmed that hole no. 4 and 5 at the course are not in good state due to water lodging. “It is true that these two holes are not in playable condition, it is not safe for health, they are surrounded by water and on top of that the drainage system close to Jamhuri Stadium is blocked by trashes,” she said. Waste disposal system that is believed to have been installed by Morogoro Municipal authorities to collect solid waste as an effort to keep the Municipality clean, tends to draw negative impact at the course. Morogoro course joins Sea Cliff Resort & Spa golf course of Zanzibar to make the facility open for use but take strict measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19.