MOSHI Cooperative University (MoCU) in Kilimanjaro Region has started a process of hosting journals online to attract more readers and authors worldwide. That was revealed by MoCU Head of Research and Publications, Dr Isaac Kazungu, during an exclusive interview with ‘Daily News’ recently. He said the move would also improve MoCU’s status inside and outside the country. “MoCU journals are currently hosted by the East African Journal of Social and Applied Sciences (EAJ-SAS). To add to this, we as an institution, have already applied to the African Journals Online (AJOL) which has its headquarters in South Africa for hosting our journals,” he said. Dr Kazungu noted that the move would improve the quality of MoCU’s publications and attract scholars from all corners of the world and increase the facility’s visibility and boost its status as East Africa’s centre of excellence in cooperative and business management studies. He named the two journals to be hosted by MoCU as East Africa Journal of Social and Applied Sciences (EAJ-SAS) and the Journal of Cooperative and Business Studies (JCBS), which he said would be published twice a year. “We want MoCU journals to go international to attract readers and authors worldwide. To achieve this end, the process has started by putting them online. We have also submitted an application to host our journals online with the African Journals on Line (AJOL), a big online forum which has its headquarters in South Africa,” he reiterated. Meanwhile, MoCU plans to introduce two more Masters Programmes, a move which will add to five the number of Masters Programmes at the university. Director of Research and Postgraduate Studies, Dr Mangasini Katundu, named the new two Masters Programmes as the Masters in Human Resource Management (MHRM) and the Masters in Development and Planning (MDP). “These two new Masters Programmes are expected to be launched in the new academic year expected to start in September 2020,” he said. The Masters Programmes currently provided by the institution, the Centre of Excellence in Cooperative Business Studies in East Africa, include the Master of Arts in Cooperative and Community Development, Master of Arts in Procurement and Supply Management and Master of Business Management. The introduction of the two new programmes will boost MoCU’s status, while at the same time improving the image of the institution inside and outside the country. He noted that the introduction of the new programmes would also compliment the ongoing government’s efforts to transform Tanzania into a middle- income economy through industrialisation by proving the employment market with professionals who could manage emerging industries as a result of the government’s policy on industrialisation. “As we all know, a Master’s Degree is an academic degree awarded by higher learning institutions, universities or colleges to be specific. Completion of the course demonstrates mastery or a high order overview of a specific field of study or an area of professional practice. Therefore, with the introduction of these new programmes we will contribute to grooming more professionals in the future,” he noted.