THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), has recovered over 200m/-, property of the Kagera Farmers' Cooperative Bank (KFCB). The money, it was disclosed, was swindled by unfaithful individuals. Deputy Kagera Regional PCCB Chief, Mr Hassan Mossi told reporters that the recovered sum amounting to 219.8m/-was part of 2.5bn/-, property of the KFCB that was owed by individuals. "KFCB had been placed under liquidation. However, efforts were in progress to recover the funds. Investigations are also in progress, and some of the suspects will be arraigned in court. PCCB had also recovered about 67m/-, property of several Agricultural and Marketing Cooperative Societies (AMCOS) in Karagwe District," he said. Mr Hassan further elaborated that the institution had uncovered ghost payments involving the construction of the district hospital in Karagwe District. “One of the contractors, (name undisclosed), was paid ghost payments to the tune of 19.2m/-, while about 12m/-had been recovered up to now," he said. He explained that during the past three months (Jan-March), PCCB made a close follow-up on ten development projects being implemented at cost a of 2.169bn/-to establish value for money. "During the same period, several suspects, including top officials of the Tanganyika Instant Coffee Public Company limited (TANICA PLC), had been arraigned in court for occasioning loss amounting to over 3.5bn/, property of the company. Hearing of the economic case is in progress," he said. Meanwhile, the Kagera Regional Immigration Officer (RIO), Mr Pendo Buteng'e, has died after a short illness while receiving treatment at the Bukoba Referral Regional hospital. Acting Kagera RIO, Mr Thomas Fush said the late Buteng'e was admitted at the institution for about four days. "The department is mourning the passing of the late Buteng'e, who was a dedicated leader. We shall miss him very much. Funeral arrangements are being made to transport the body to his home village in Mara Region," he said. 