HERE is good news; The government has reported the recovery of 37 people who were undergoing Covid-19 treatment after results of testing proved negative with 71 others waiting to undergo final diagnostic test. According to a statement issued on Friday in Dar es Salaam by Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, the first group of 37 patients underwent all stages of confirmatory tests before being discharged. This makes a total number of patients who have fully recovered from corona virus and discharged from treatment reach 48 in total, including the 11 who were announced previously. She said the remaining 71 patients were waiting to undergo final diagnostic procedures to ascertain their health status before a decision to discharge them or not is made. The discharged patients are among 108 victims who tested positive of the pandemic but were now doing well with no symptoms of Covid-19. “As of now, a total of 108 patients are no longer manifesting any symptoms of the coronavirus such as high body temperature and coughing. Some have already been discharged but others are waiting for the final results for them to be discharged so that they can rejoin their families,” she said. If all these 108 patients will be discharged from treatment, the country will remain with 155 active cases of coronavirus from the current 226 cases. So far 10 people have died. The minister also asked all those who have been discharged to continue observing preventive measures, as studies conducted in various countries, including China, show that 14 percent of victims who recovered from Coronavirus contracted the disease again. “We would like to remind those who have recovered to continue taking care of themselves and their beloved ones within the family and the whole society,” she said, acknowledging the efforts of the health experts who are taking care of the victims. Ms Ummy also asked health workers to continue taking care of all patients, including those who have symptoms of Covid-19 pandemic. Her statement came in response to the recent move by some of health sector staff who have been reported to be refusing to receive patients who have developed symptoms of the Covid-19. “We have seen some health workers refusing to receive patients who have symptoms of Covid-19; This is against professional ethics. I am reminding all of you to adhere to the National Infection Prevention and Control Guidelines for Health care Services in Tanzania of June 2018, as well as the clinical guidance for management of patients with Covid-19 of January 2020,” the minister stressed. Meanwhile, the minister thanked Azania Group for donating 50m/-and 300 pieces of soap as part of efforts to support the government on fighting the disease. The money would be spent on cleaning and feeding Covid-19 patients receiving treatment at Temeke, Amana and Kisoka-Mloganzila centers. In another development, the total of number of Covid-19 cases has increased from 83 announced last Wednesday to 98 yesterday in Zanzibar as the Ministry of Health issued a fresh call to the public to observe health precautions seriously to stop the rise. The 15 fresh cases include five in Pemba. “We appeal further to members of the public to take the health precautions seriously because it is the only way to stop the spread of Covid-19,” Minister of Health, Mr Hamad Rashid Mohamed said in a press statement here. He said that it was still possible to stop contracting the contagious disease if everyone in the Isles followed the guidelines which include social distancing in all areas while outside their homes observing hygiene, by mainly hand washing. The minister said, however, that the good news was that 632 out of 892 (including 624 in Pemba) who were on a 14-day compulsory quarantine have been released after showing no symptoms for coronavirus virus. He further said that the war against Covid-19 cannot be fought by health officers alone, stressing that public support remains crucial. “Simply ensure you follow the precautions at all times. We also urge anybody with symptoms to report for diagnosis,”Mr Mohamed said. Zanzibar’s Health Ministry confirmed the first case of the coronavirus on March 18, 2020, and it has since then been advising the public on how to avoid contracting the virus.