AT the time when the world is with covid-19 let us see how nature is capable of protecting some animals in the Savannah where there is no mask but special mechanisms are used for defence and it is believed to be more effective than industrial sanitizers which are on the need almost everywhere in the world today. Scientists describe sanitizer or disinfectants as antimicrobial agents designed to inactivate or destroy microorganisms on inert surfaces, disinfection does not necessarily kill all microorganisms, especially resistant bacterial spores while mask is described as an object normally worn on the face, typically for protection, disguise, performance, or entertainment. Meanwhile when you are amused by the black and white stripes on zebra you need to know that nature designed them to protect these beautiful animals in the savannah, unlike their relative Equus such as kiang, horse and the domesticated African donkey it’s the Zebra who are decorated with black and white stripes, from human perspectives these stripes make the mammal to be very beautiful but some scientists have driven different hypotheses on the real use of these elegant black and white stripes but the truth is these mysterious lines play different functions. Early research showed that because of a white underbelly at the beginning of time zebras were white animals and black stripes came later as result of evolution processes, today scientists say that embryological evidence show that at the beginning zebra were black but due to a combination of evolutional factors white stripes were added later for different functions. The stripes lay vertically on head, neck, forequarter and the main bodies of the animal while rear side, tail and on the legs are elegantly spin vertically, scientists say the vertical stripping help the zebra to hide in the middle of savannah grassland through a camouflaging style called disruptive coloration which breaks up the outlines of the animal just like military uniforms in a battle grounds. When these animals stand or walk slowly together in a large group in another camouflaging tactic called motion dazzle they disguise themselves with a very large body which confuse their enemies as such lions with a conspicuous pattern, making the object visible but momentarily harder to locate. It’s this important strategy which helps the zebra to avoid attack from lions who are colour blind and because of this weakness most of the time these animals are seen fleeing in large group and those who fail to do that end up into jaws of the king of African jungle. Scientists say although they look alike but every zebra carry its own pattern of black and white stripes just like human finger prints but it’s not yet known if these beautiful mammals are capable of using the marks for identification purposes. Most mammals in the wild are known to identify one another through unique odor released by scant glands or Preorbital glands which chemically identify every animal according to its specie or sub specie, may be zebra have an upper hand to identify each other. This ability may be vital in stopping of cross breeding among ten extant sub species of zebra like Plains zebra which dwell in the savannah grassland of East Africa and Grant’s zebra a small sized zebra dominate the Greater Serengeti Ecosystem which is also known for annual migration. The Chapman’s zebra is another sub species which is found in southern Africa, Crawshay’s zebra of Zambia and southern part of Tanzania in game reserves like Lukwati and Uwanda. Maneless zebra is specie of zebra which prefer dryer vegetations of East Africa, Cape mountain zebra which are found in southern Africa, Hartmann’s mountain zebra which are found in Angola, Grévy’s zebra of northern Kenya and Burchell’s zebra of Botswana. Geographical there is a great possibility between plains zebra and grants zebra to get closer and make cross breeding but most scientists believe that these mammal are conservative on maintaining their identities from one sub species to another. Apart from identification scientists say the black and white stripes on head, neck and other parts of the mammal’s body are used to repel blood sucking insects such as Tsetse flies. African buffaloes and other mammals of savannah use their long tails to chase away flies but reflection of light from white stripes on zebra’s body is capable of stopping flies from landing on them. This has been proved by scientists who say zebra are less affected by Nagana disease which affects other herbivorous such as buffaloes and wildebeests but the wider white and black stripes protect the elegant animal against Tsetse flies who were seen avoiding them in savannah. Scientists continue to say the flies prefer low bright colour but when white stand between black it shine more and become less attractive to them, it’s also believed that the white and black stripes help zebra to counter shade when grazing in open areas of Savannah a principal which was used by different military forces across the world after the end of the First World War when uniforms and other military equipment were painted in unusual colours. Zebras are not militia men but camouflaging is their main principal to survival wherever they are found example grasslands, savannah woodland and shrub lands found in mountainous, hills and coastal areas of Africa south of Sahara. In major tourist’s centres across East African different beautiful items such handbags, wallets and shoes are made from zebra’s skins but it’s not well known if these precious natural resources are obtained legally. There is a great need for everybody to help this beautiful mammal to use its beautiful stripes camouflage against poachers and wicked people who use its long bush tail and other body parts in witchcraft activities. rstanslaus@yahoo.com