THE late Ali Haji Pandu, 82 , who served as Zanzibar’s Supreme Court’s Chief Justice, before taking part in writing the First Zanzibar 198 4 constitution, was laid to rest on Monday following his death earlier in the day at his home, Magomeni, on the outskirts of Stone Town. Several dignitaries from the government and leaders of the political opposition camp, mainly ACT-Wazalendo, attended Pandu’s burial in his home village Makunduchi, Unguja South. Politicians, lawyers and other residents of Zanzibar paid their last respects and prayed for him at the Al- Noor Muhammad Masjid, Mombasa. According to family members, the late Pandu was indoors for about 15 years after developing health complications, but he was partially active in politics. He was close to Maalim Seif Sharif, the current national chairman of ACT-Wazalendo, to which he crossed from the then Civic United Front (CUF). Pandu was CJ from 1970 to 1978 and he was assigned to preside over the treason case after the assassination of the First Zanzibar President, the late Abeid Amani K arume in 1972. He later served as Water and Land Minister between 198 4 and 1988 before he and eight other people, including Maalim Seif, were expelled from the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) for violating party regulations. The deceased also served as Member of Parliament for Makunduchi before he was dismissed from the party. Alongside his colleagues, they formed an opposition political party in 1990 which was later registered as CUF when multi-party political system was re-introduced in 1992 . While in CUF, he served as a member of the executive committee until internal conflicts started brewing within the party. However, he remained a member until the CUF split, whereby he and others led by Maalim Seif joined ACT-Wazalendo. The State Minister for Public Service and Good Governance, Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman, who attended the funeral, described the deceased as a man who worked hard for his country, particularly when he was CJ. Other leaders from both CCM and opposition sent their condolences to the family. The late Pandu is a survived by a wife, nine children and many grandchildren.