OIL prices recorded a dramatic fall to below zero this week as energy demand plummets in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. According to international media, oil producers are paying buyers to take the commodity off their hands over fears that storage capacity could run out in May. But what does this historic plunge in oil prices mean to Tanzania? Should we celebrate oil dipping prices or should we get ready for the worse? Does Tanzania stand to gain or lose as too much oil is being produced and way too little being used as lockdowns across the world have kept people inside. Tens of millions of barrels of oil are being pulled out of the ground every day that no one needs for gasoline, diesel or jet fuel. Some of that oil is going into storage tanks, but there soon will not be enough tanks to hold it all. The world is running out of places to put all the oil the industry keeps pumping out — about 100 million barrels a day. With sufficient storage running low, while panic amongst traders holding derivative contracts develop, fears now are on whether traders with long-term leases will probably be able to score huge profits or suffer losses. While one and all in this week is overwhelmed and surprised with swings in the global economy, as nothing compares to the plummeting value of global crude oil price, crude prices crashed below $0 for the first time in history. While trading unfinished futures for May 2020 is in a dilemma for USA market, the price stands at minus $4.6 per barrel at the time of writing this article, due to lack of demand could lead to a far-reaching fall in global crude oil prices. Within on-going oil dipping prices, pros and cons of cheaper crude oil and what this price fall mean to the Tanzania industrialist and businesses is focus of thought offered here. Much as views may differ on how much more crude oil prices will drop, there is no uncertainty given no vaccine has been found, low rates are here to stay for some time. While some submissions as cited in the media debates that a level below $0 a barrel can drag the energy product a further fall, instead of being a blessing in disguise can have worse repercussion that can ultimately put on pressure on our shilling. Forecasts of recovery in crude oil prices look uninviting. For Tanzania, the net oil importer, cheaper oil will help lower its current account arrears through imports and more benefits could have been attained if under its bulk procurement system, the country had in place enough storage capacity. Design and risk assessment is desirable in building storage capacity that may turn out to be an expensive investment. If Tanzania has more storage capacity to store fuel for its local and storage for transit goods, we as country serving more than five land locked countries could have enjoyed the opportunity. While oil marketing companies based in Tanzania may have to have enough storage capacity constrained by the way orders are given and supply is met, it is high time for these companies to think big and see future opportunities that can generate profit from hospitality storage charges and fees. A bonanza from cheaper oil in the USA will result in drop in prices in the Middle East where most of imports occurs and in total will cause drop in production costs for various industries in Tanzania. Nonetheless, from an economic point of view, there will be disadvantages from lower crude oil prices that will not spare Tanzania. The global oil market of recently has been feeling the pinch of the plunge caused by not agreeing on production levels amongst major oil producing nations. With USA price dropping shock, at the bigger picture prices of most commodities will certainly be affected. For instance, ethanol, heating oil, natural gas, coal, copper, steel, cotton, rice, rubber, soybean, sugar, rice and wheat following low prices fall has all plummeted as allude to in the media by over 20 per cent in the last one year alone triggered by low off takers. This means returns to farmers and producers and investors will be lower, thus decreasing their purchasing power. It is difficult to convince financial institutions such as banks to extend credits to borrowers while expecting low returns. For example, in 2012, Tanzania through NDC revived its 750 hectares of rubber in Kalunga, Morogoro Region and Muheza in Tanga. The revival was scheduled to setting up projects that will encourage small scale farmers to engage in large scale rubber production while more farmers were to be encouraged to establish their farms in the neighbourhood. The actuality is that with crude oil prices running low, natural rubber market from Tanzanians who might have taken the initiative to start up rubber farms may be on risks because of available option of a cheaper synthetic rubber. Similarly, palm oil and vegetable oils will also be under pressure in view of lower prices. Ethanol production at current crude oil level is unviable, while demand for vegetable oils for bio-diesel will be subdued. There are other risks too such as exports being affected. China and India are major importers of Tanzania’s industrial minerals and agriculture products. If it happens that the two Asian economic power houses suffer more from negative economic impacts from lockdown measures imposed to curb Covid-19 spread and now falling crude oil prices, they will most probably lower imports. Falling oil prices will hurt key sector of the stock market since given higher supply is a major reason for oil dipping, investors might be concerned that dipping prices are a sign of falling demand due to slowing global growth, hence investors in importing nations might cut back on capital outlays. On government side there may be a bearing on taxes, fees and charges as it is known that for every litre of fuel a certain percentage goes to the government in the form of direct taxes.     