WHEN the whole world is grappling with the infamous COVID-19 pandemic there can’t be a better time to give your contribution towards domestic capital formation. When on money matters, it is important to understand that savings created by an individual person is not only important or beneficial to him/her, but even plays a key role in the formation of domestic capital in the country. So when you as an ordinary person makes a sincere effort to save, this noble action of yours will not only lead to your wellbeing, but will also be an indirect service to the nation building. Therefore, when I talk about the phrase “Domestic Savings”, it mainly refers to the consolidated savings of a nation as contributed by its responsible citizens. So the moot question remains, as to how a nation benefits from the creation of ‘domestic savings’. Can the growth trajectory of a country be improved by just creating more savings? The answer to this question is an emphatic “YES”, but how – let us explore further! It is a known fact that growth in a country results from innovations translating into industrial development that allows local sectors to catch up with the upgraded technology. In relatively low income, catching up with the ever changing technology requires the involvement of a foreign investor, who is familiar with the frontier technology, together with effort on the part of a local bank/investor, who can directly monitor local projects to which the technology is adapted. In such a country, local saving matters for innovation, and therefore growth, because it allows the domestic bank to co-finance projects, which lessen dependence of foreign capital. Once we have understood the importance of ‘domestic savings’, the next logical step is to find ways and means, through which domestic savings in Tanzania or for that matter in the African continent can be improved, as the ground realities in most countries are the same. Traditionally, many Africans are known to keep majority of their savings in livestock, stockpiles of goods for trading, grain, and jewellery or construction material. Though data on it is limited, but some experts estimate that about 80 per cent of all household assets in rural Africa are kept in non-financial forms. To tap into such assets, it is necessary to “introduce new financial products or instruments that respond to the saving needs of households”. Financial products that “permit easy accessibility” and allow “small transactions at frequent intervals” would encourage households to shift to the formal system, thereby making such assets available for productive investments. However, before we jump to a solution towards improving domestic savings, let us first study some known barriers to savings, which exist in many countries like Physical distance from banking institutions coupled with high minimum deposit, and balance requirements, means that the majority of population does not get access to the banking services. Minimum balance requirements and the cost of maintaining an account with a bank are too high for many citizens to afford. Additionally, banks also insist on considerable documentation as a pre-condition to open an account. Even when people have extra money, there may be little incentive for them to save, because the offered interest rate on small savings is abysmally low. It is a practice that lowers the deposit amount; the corresponding interest rate offered is low. This further discourages the small savers to make an attempt to open a bank account in order to save. Thus, the banking sector in any country has a very important role to play in boosting ‘domestic savings’. There are many initiatives which can be taken to bring the small savers into the mainstream. One notable step in this direction could be the introduction of “zero-deposit” account i.e. allowing people to open bank accounts without initially putting in any money, thereby increasing its customer base. On such zero deposit accounts, it is quite logical to also have a “zero account maintenance” charge. Such initiative will encourage small savers to open bank accounts freely, as by doing so they have nothing to lose. As in many countries globally there are special rates offered to senior citizens [i.e. old people]. On the similar lines, banks can offer special interest rates to even small savers - say for an amount up to Tzs. 1 Million. As stated above, the current practice is quite opposite where small savers are offered the least, as they do not enjoy the financial muscle needed in order to negotiate hard. Further there is an urgent need to take the banking services to the door steps of small savers. Though banks across Africa are taking steps by expanding their network or by introduction of mobile van services, however, lot remains to be done before this distance becomes reachable. Additionally, banks can employ rural field staff who can be deployed in each village to collect small savings at regular intervals. While on this, the existing postal network can come very handy. Traditionally, for decades governments have used the extensive networks of post offices to mobilize small savings and provide basic financial services in rural areas. However with onset of the so-called modern banking services, the potential of these post offices has not been harnessed to its fullest extent. There are many ways through which the wide network of post offices can be utilized effectively by the banking sector. Thus increasing savings and ensuring that it is directed to productive investments are central to accelerating economic growth in a country. As demonstrated above, one of the potential ways through which “domestic savings” can be enhanced in the African continent is by converting the un-bankable to “bankable”. It can be achieved if every bank adopts this as one of their corporate social responsibility agenda. Cheers!!!