AZAM FC would require at least a month to regroup and fully recover for the Mainland Premier League, when the government declares that it is safe to resume sports activities. Tanzania like many other countries in the world, has suspended all sports events as a preventive measure to curb the fast spread of the coronavirus, which is affecting many people around the world. On March 17th this year, the state through Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, issued a 30 days break for all sport events and it is likely that when the recommended days will be over, government will assess the situation before making another announcement as to whether it is safe to recommence the games or not. “If they announce that it is safe to restart sport events, then Azam will require at least one more month to fully recover and compete effectively in the remaining ten matches,” Azam Communication Officer Thabith Zakaria told the ‘Daily News’. Zakaria said that after the league was suspended, Azam Head Coach, Aristica Cioaba flew to his native country Romania, with hopes to return before the league resumes, but according to the current situation, with most countries under lockdown, the trainer has not been able to return. “It will be difficult for us to continue with training immediately if the normalcy returns because the trainer is not around and currently, we are without the assistant coach. “This is why we request the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) to give teams at least a moth to fully recover… we will need a couple of days for preparations when the outbreak has been contained.” “We would suggest TFF to offer 14 days for quarantine to coaches and players who will be returning from abroad and thereafter, another 14 days for the coaches and players to train with the rest of the squad,” he said. Regardless, Zakaria said coach Aristica left behind a package of training to players that he has been monitoring closely. He said players are reporting their progress every week. However, the TPLB had already said that they will provide enough time for teams to regroup when the government will declare that it is safe to resume sports activities. TPLB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Almas Kasongo said they will wait for further government’s directives after the imposed 30 days are over.