EAST African Community (EAC) partner states have been urged to treat Covid-19 truck drivers and crew in a specific host state instead of deporting them to their countries of origin. The call has been made as deporting them would result in further spread of the deadly disease. The EAC Secretariat has called on the states to enforce mandatory screening or testing of truck drivers and crew at border posts and undertake mobile monitoring during transit at selected inland points. In its 17-page document titled ‘EAC Administrative Guidelines to Facilitate Movement of Goods and Services During the Covid-19 Pandemic’ that has been sent to partner states, the Secretariat has urged member states to quarantine those with symptoms for 14 days under the supervision of the respective ministry responsible for health. The member countries are supposed to facilitate cross-border trade during the ongoing crisis occasioned by the novel coronavirus, adopt a multi-sectoral and coordinated approach, provide access at all designated points for entry and exit of goods, treat cross-border movement of trucks and cargo as essential services. The guidelines released by the Senior Public Relations Officer, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Department at the EAC Secretariat, Mr Simon Owaka, the Secretariat says that among items that are supposed to be prioritised as essential goods to mitigate the Covid-19 pandemic are food, fuel, medicaments, agricultural products and inputs, security supplies, emergency and humanitarian relief goods. “To mitigate critical shortages of equipment and supplies, partner states have been called upon to promote local production of the items required to contain Covid-19, for example, medicaments, sanitisers, protective gear and ventilators,” the guidelines indicate. Partner states have further been advised to support the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector that employs many East Africans by exploring avenues to enable them to remain in business and expand as a foundation for the post-Covid- 19 recovery process. In another development, transporters and transporters’ associations have been directed to adhere to the requirement of having only two to three operators per truck, including the driver. In a letter addressed to EAC Permanent/Principal/Under Secretaries in ministries responsible for EAC affairs and copied to their counterparts in the ministries of trade and health, the EAC Deputy Secretary General in charge of the Productive and Social Sectors, Mr Christopher Bazivamo, states that administrative guidelines had been developed by the EAC ad hoc Regional Coordination Committee on Covid-19 response.