SUSPENSION of all local and international sports activities in the country and globally due to   COVID-19 pandemic proved to be a great challenge to many athletes in the country. Speaking with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday in an interview from Arusha, marathoner Angela John Yumba said most runners who depends on invitational events to earn their living are currently facing it rough. Regardless, Angela, who won 2018 Nagai city full marathon, said that the suspension of all sports activities at this moment was crucial because nothing comes first than health of everyone including athletes. “Yes we understand that this situation has put many of us in a difficult time especially those who solely depend on the sport but again, it is important for such action to be taken in efforts to fight against the spread of the deadly coronavirus. “We are hopefully that will pass through and everything will get back to normal,” she said. In Nagai city event, Angela won the full marathon by clocking 2 hours, 42 minutes and 21 seconds, while in the half marathon 21km Fabiano Sulle won men’s discipline by clocking 1:02 :53, while in women’s discipline Amina Mgoo clocked 1:10.08 to win the category. Angela further said that the suspension of all sports activities in the country and globally has given them a lesson that they must always have plan B, instead of depending on a single source of income. “Suspension of all athletics events globally have affected runners who mostly depends on the sport for a living compared to those who are employed and athletics is their second source of income. However, Angela urged her fellow runners not to relax during this period of inactiveness of sports instead, she said, they should keep training to be fit and ready when the suspension is lifted. “Athletes need to be in good shape to compete …they can keep training individually and to their optimum…they always need to be ready although the suspension period is still unknown,” she said. On her part, Glory Makula, a 10,000 metres and marathoner said health comes first and everything should be done to fight against the spread of coronavirus, including seeking Divine intervention. Glory admitted that she has personally being hit hard and affected by the suspension of sports but has no option basing on the current situation. “This pandemic is a global disaster but I believe it will be conquered and the situation returns to normal within the near future. “At the moment, I continue with my daily training routine to keep fit. I strictly follow the all health directives, which include training individually. Although I must admit that keeping on training without participating in any race is discomforting many of us,” she disclosed. Glory was the first runner-up in the full marathon event at the 33rd edition of Nagai City marathon, which was held last year, after clocking 3 hours, 00 minutes and 47 seconds.