PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said suspension of all sporting activities and events that are of a huge public nature will remain intact, as part of strengthening preventive measures to avoid the spread of COVID-19. In a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office in Dodoma yesterday, Majaliwa said there will be no change to the suspension imposed to all sporting activities about 30 days ago until further notice. The decision was announced shortly after the National Coordination Task Force Committee in charge of the fight against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic that convened in Dodoma yesterday under the Chairmanship of Premier Majaliwa. Majaliwa, whose office is in charge of Disaster Management Department (DMD), said in a statement that until yesterday, the number of infections in Tanzania rose to 53, with four new cases registered in Dar es Salaam. On March 17th this year, the government through Premier Majaliwa, announced suspension of all sporting activities and events that are of a huge public nature for at least 30 days, to monitor the situation. By then, only one Tanzanian was infected by the pandemic, which has so far claimed close to 125,000 lives worldwide by late yesterday, with close to two million people infected across the globe. This means, the Mainland Premier League and other lower leagues will remain halted until further notice. Runaway top flight leaders Simba, who need to win five matches to retain the title for the third straight season, will have to wait a little bit longer for them to be crowned champions for 21st times. Simba are destined for the  third premier league title in the 2019-2020 season as they sit top of the league table on 71 points from 28 matches, massive 17 points above second placed Azam FC, who have played the same number of matches. Young Africans are third on the log with 51 points from 27 matches. With ten matches to go it will require miracles for Simba to lose their grip on the title, although mathematically, both Azam and Yanga are capable of reaching 71 points tally, only if Simba lose all their remaining matches. The latest decision also means that all inter-primary school games (UMITASHUMTA) and inter-secondary (UMISSETA) will remain suspended indefinitely.