THE Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Juma Homera, has issued a 48-hour ultimatum for the Police Force  in the region  48 hours  to take to court  a  Chinese national and petty trader, Lin Guosong (34),  for allegedly defying to observe  precautionary measures against the spread of Covid-19. Lin resides at Majengo area in Sumbawanga municipality. The RC also  ordered the alien to surrender his passport to the relevant authorities. According to the RC, the Chinese national   was arrested shortly after refusing to wash his hands and apply sanitizer before leaving a check point at Kasansa Village in Mlele District. 'After being apprehended by police officers, he was detained for interrogation at Inyonga Police Station; I am hereby directing  the police to arraign for prosecution…I have given 48 hours for execution of my order," directed the RC. Mr Homera issued the directives during a press briefing he held shortly after receiving medical equipments valued over 25 m/- donated by Walter Reed (HJFMRI). Manager of Walter Reed (HJMRI), Dr Shaban Ndama, handed the donated equipments to the RC in a move to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic In another development, the RC warned the former Burundian nationals who had  become Tanzanian citizens to refrain from hosting their relatives who are allegedly entering into the country illegally. Meanwhile, the Katavi Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Omari Sukari, said that although no Covid-19 patient had been recorded in the region, four Congolese  nationals had been kept in a compulsory  14 day quarantine in an  isolation center. Meanwhile, in a move to contain the spread of the pandemic,  the Mpanda District Commissioner, (DC) Ms Lilian Matinga, has declared that only five family members are allowed to attend the burial of specific individuals. The same number applies to weddings, baptismal and confirmations celebrations. "Only a few mourners, mostly family  members, are allowed to sleep in a particular house and feeding big numbers of people is forbidden,” she explained. She also forbade parents to assign their children to hawk  various items in the streets. "I have already instructed patrol  police officers to arrest parents and guardians whose children are conducting petty traders along streets,” she said.