THE Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) has said the extension in suspension of sports activities in the country imposed by the government, was important because it meant to ensure that people are safe. TCA insisted that they will continue to honor government's directive not to resume sports activities until the current threat of Covid-19 is totally curbed. Initially, the government ordered a one month break to all sports activities as one measure to contain the spread of the coronavirus but that period has since been extended until further notice. Last  Tuesday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said suspension of all sporting activities and events that are of a huge public nature will remain intact, as part of strengthening preventive measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Reacting to latest decision, TCA Communication Officer, Atif  Salim said that the extension was important at the time when the threat still exists, insisting that it is important to ensure that the country is safe and free from the virus. “We value the health of players and everyone else. The TCA also calls on all Tanzanians to avoid gatherings for their own good health and safety. “This is a very critical time in our lives…It's not something to be ignored at all. As an association we have stopped all our activities but there are still people who are ignoring the social distancing and playing sports on the weekends,” “Cricket is one of the least physical contact sport yet we have stopped as it involves gathering. I urge people to take this pandemic very seriously as we are fighting an invisible enemy at the moment,” he warned. He added; “Sports was meant to bring people together but in the current situation, it is better to maintain distance.” The national cricket team suspended camp for ICC Men’s T20 World Cup African Qualifiers immediately after the government announced a 30-day ban on all sports and gatherings since March 17th this year. The 2020–21 ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Africa Qualifiers were also called off after the International Cricket Council (ICC) confirmed that all ICC qualifying events scheduled to take place before 30 June 2020 had been postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.