NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars and Aston Villa forward, Mbwana Samatta has joined the rest of the world for the brave and gallant fight against the Coronavirus (COVID-19), pandemic. Samatta released information to safe guard the public, insisting that it was important for Tanzanians to follow all directives by the government and health experts for them to stay safe and free from the deadly virus. Samatta admitted that life without playing football was difficult, although he insisted self-isolation was important to protect people’s health. He stressed the essence of keeping fit even without team training at a time the entire world is battling to tame the spread of the Coronavirus. He stressed on the role and responsibility of every citizen in Tanzania to look after each other, insisting that people must always wash their hands well with soap and water and use sanitizers. “It is also very important for every one of us to avoid handshakes, cover our mouth and nose while sneezing and keep a distance from one another,” he said. Due to coronavirus pandemic, the English Premier League player said he is following closely all advices given by government and health authorities in England, including self-isolation at home. “I'm good and ok at home in Birmingham…this is the second biggest city in England after London and already, many cases have been reported here. “All I can do, is try as much as possible to protect myself and my family from COVID-19, it is somewhat tricky to prevent, but better try because prevention is better than cure,” he said. “I take time to play with children, watch television and skip rope to burn calories. I am strictly following the training guidelines that were also given to me by coach. It is not that easy without playing football. I love football, it is my life so it is difficult for me, but we have to follow instructions,” he said. Samatta added: “It is very important to protect each one of us against the disaster and pray to God that life returns to normal within the near future.” He adviced fellow Tanzanians not to panic so much if one get infected with the virus. “The only important thing is to make sure they take all necessary measures not to spread infections by calling the relevant authorities to receive treatment. “My advice to Tanzanians, do not make jokes about the virus, follow all government and health authorities advices on how to protect yourselves and loved ones,” he added. The Tanzania international joined Villa from Belgian side KRC Genk for £8.5million during the January transfer window. Aston Villa fans seem to have been largely impressed by Samatta since his arrival at the club. The striker has scored twice in five appearances so far-most recently at Wembley in Carabao Cup final 2-1 defeat to Manchester City. Now he will be hoping to help his new team stay in the Premier League this season, which has since been suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic.