THE government has sealed a deal with The Netherlands on the production of potatoes which will help producers to reap benefits. This, according to Minister of Trade and Industries Innocent Bashungwa, is part of efforts to make Tanzania among the leading Irish potatoes producer and exporter. The deal was signed between the government through Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute Uyole (TARI-Uyole) and the government of Netherlands. The seed varieties are expected to increase productivity of the crop, while the government is working to improve its value chain as well as training farmers on modern potato farming to enable them move from traditional to commercial agriculture. According to the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT), previously, the country had only four potato varieties, but now has 11 varieties. “Some of the improved Irish potato varieties are currently tested by farmers in Busokelo District, Mbeya Region. The government expects positive results from the trials as The Netherlands has assured farmers of reliable market,” said the Ministry of Industry and Trade in its written response to a question from Busokelo Member of Parliament Freddy Mwakibete (CCM). The ministry noted that the ready-created market in The Netherlands will be a catalyst for increased investment in the crop’s value chain. The move is also expected to boost farmers’ income as well as the national economy. In his question, the legislator had wanted to know government efforts in finding markets for banana and Irish potatoes which are mostly cultivated in Busokelo District. He also asked whether the government had any plans to construct processing factories for the crops. According to the ministry, the government has been working to improve business and investment climate in the country, while local and foreign investors are encouraged to set up processing factories for the crops. “All these efforts are meant to meet the country’s demand as well as exports. The government is likely to earn more from potato exports,” said the ministry. There are some existing factories for banana processing which include Mazimba Company Limited and Matunda Mema Tanzania Ltd in Karagwe District, Kagera Region and two in Rombo District, Kilimanjaro Region- Kibo Alex Banana Wine Ltd and Kilimanjaro Banana Wine Limited. Others are Lumbugani Banana Enterprise in Mwanjelwa District, Mbeya Region, Kasuku Banana Wine Ltd in Rungwe District and Arusha Banana Investment Ltd. The government urged farmers to make use of the industries by selling their crops since most of the factories source raw materials locally. The ministry explained that to ensure vegetable and other horticultural products reached local and international markets while fresh, President John Magufuli has embarked on renovations and construction of airports in southern highland regions. During his tour in Mbeya Region, the president, assured farmers of improved transport infrastructures, including ports and construction of cold rooms at airports. “We urged potato farmers in Busokelo District to make use of the new market in Lupala Ward; The facility can be a major link between farmers, traders and industrial owners,” the ministry stated. Other major potato growers in Africa include South Africa, Zimbabwe and Zambia.