DURING Ebola outbreak in some neighboring country, Media reported that some patients w ere running aw ay from q uarantine and hospitals w ithout realizing that they w ere posing g reat risk to the society and their beloved ones. This is not ex pected w ith coronavirus, w here asy mptomatic people may run aw ay from hospitals and q uarantine institutions without being officially discharged, because they w ould also pose the same great risk to the society and lead to unnecessary panic and spread of the deadly disease. In the realm of medicine, there are professionals w ho are task ed by individual government(s) and World Health Organisation (WHO) to lead, advice and update on any disease be it pandemic or endemic, hence citizens should not w orry and panic. It is also the same medics w ho should certify and shed light on w ho is asy mptomatic person (a person who carry the active virus in his/her body but never develops any sy mptoms), not just necessarily one being j udg ed by the public. For that matter, it is the health professionals w ho should be answ ering any q uestion on such diseases, w hich may include: Who is a silent spreader? Is it possible to be infected w ith the coronavirus and show no sy mptoms? Or g o through a period of several days before sy mptoms kick in? And even in this stag e w ith no cough, no fever, no sig n of illness, could y ou be transmitting the virus to others? This is not an area w here q uack doctors, herbalists and unlicensed individuals should capitalize to mint extra coin in the society by advertising in the public that they have cures for the ailment. This is eq ually , the time for our medics to shed more light on the disease, which according to Tara C  Smith, an epidemiologist at Kent State University’s Colleg e of Public Health, an asymptomatic show s no fever, no gastrointestinal issues, no breathing issues, no coughing , and as you might imagine, hence it’s hard to fig ure out w hen someone has the disease. Some cases of asymptomatic carriers have been confirmed by finding and testing people who were in close contact with COVID-19 patients. For those w ho tested positive w ithout sy mptoms, follow - up exams confirmed that about 25 percent continued to show no sig ns, World Health Organisation officials said on April 1, citing data from China. Here a small clinical study from Nanjing , China, follow ed 24 people w ho tested positive but didn’t show overt symptoms at the time. In the one to three w eek s after diag nosis, seven continued show ing no sy mptoms. Another group could be pre-sy mptomatic: People w ho have been infected and are incubating the virus but don’t y et show sy mptoms. After infection, sy mptoms might not develop for five to six day s- or even tw o w eek s, according to the Annals of Internal Medicine. The time betw een catching the virus and show ing sy mptoms is called the pre-sy mptomatic phase.