A FEW days ago, I watched a TBC sports programme which had featured the good old days of former 1,500m world record holder, Filbert Bayi. The sports programme which had the anchor and two contributors was good, for those who did not know that Tanzania had its own good, old days. But the programme could have been done better. One of the weaknesses of the programme was the impression it gave to its viewers that after the good, old days of Filbert Bayi and Suleiman Nyambui were over, there was nothing to write home about Tanzania! But some of us who were around during those days, there were more successes in athletics and other sports disciplines apart from what were achieved by the two athletes featured in the programme, Filbert Bayi and Nyambui did. Therefore, the main problem of the sports programme was lack of research on the part of the anchor and his contributors who did not seem to know anything even about Bayi and Nyambui than football, and in particular, Simba and Young Africans. For instance, Bayi himself spoke about front running when he beat Kipchoge Keino and later Australia’s R on Clarke and the man who had been touted to win the gold medal, New Zealand’s John Walker during the 1974 Commonwealth Games. What should have been highlighted in that sports programme was the world record Bayi set in Christchurch, New Zealand of 3.3 2.2 minutes, a record that stood for many years. The second point that should have been highlighted in the programme if the anchor and his friends had really done research was Bayi’s front running beat. Bayi had resorted to front running, firstly because there was a dirty game of spiking fellow athletes if one remained in the group and wait for the last 4 00m dash. The Ethiopians and Kenyans were very good at that and Bayi himself had once been spiked, hence his decision to resort to front-running which he later helped him in becoming the best 1,500m runners the world has ever produced. Of course, the two athletes were first and last to win any kind of medal in the Olympics. But other athletes continued, after that to do Tanzania proud in athletics. These includes, Colonel (rtd), Juma Ikangaa, Gidamis Shahanga and Alphonce Alex Simbu who won gold medals in marathon in different Commonwealth Games. The latest to win a gold medal at the major international event was Simbu during the Mumbai Marathon the man has been gunning for the Olympic G ames gold medal. The programme organisers ought to have known that after Bayi no Tanzanian athletes has done more in athletics than Juma Ikangaa. Apart from winning silver medal in the Club Games, Juma Ikangaa won more than five international marathon that includes Japan’s world famous Fukuoka Marathon and the New York Marathon where the winner also carts away a Mercedes Benz. In one of such incidents, the government had wanted Ikangaa to pay taxes for the car and the then Tanzanian ambassador to Japan, one Mr Lukindo came to his aid. Mr Lukindo said Ikangaa had advertised Tanzania to Japan more than what any Tanzanian ambassador had done, hence the need to respect him. And talking about Tanzania’s sports successes during those days, the first Commonwealth silver medal to be won by Tanzania was in 1970 in boxing through another Tanzania Peoples Defence Forces (TPDF), Titus Simba. Simba won the silver medal after losing in the final against Britain’s John Conteh in the middleweight during the Commonwealth G ames held in Edinburgh, Scotland. You would discover that before Filbert Bayi won the gold medal during the Commonwealth G ames held in Christchurch, New Zealand in 1974 , Tanzania had won a silver medal in boxing through Titus Simba. During the 1973 All Africa G ames held in Lagos, Nigeria where Bayi beat the then world’s renown 1,500m world champion, Kipchoge Keino to win a gold medal in 1,500, Tanzania brought home three medals, a gold medal from Bayi and two bronze medals from Habib Kinyogoli in boxing in featherweight division and Claver Kamanya from 4 00m. Now this shows you why I said in my opening paragraph of my sports column why that TBC programme could have been done better if the anchor and his two contributors in the programme had done research. And these days it is very easy to carry out such research through different internet engines which includes, among others, googles. Our journalists need to go beyond the normal call of duty in order to make their sports and other programmes more attractive to their readers, viewers and listeners. When our sports and other programmes are better prepared they will get us more readers, listeners and viewers that would bring more advertisements to our print media, radio and television stations and channels, especially during these days of digital journalism. Finally, it is also important to note that when Filbert Bayi set the world record in the event of 3 .3 2.2 minutes, President Nyerere was congratulated by his friend, Jamaica’s President, Michael Manley whose country has produced numerous athletic world beaters that include the fastest man on earth, Usain Bolt.