DEBUTANTS Polisi Tanzania said even if the Mainland Premier League can be suspended for a year, they can never be financially affected unlike with other teams. This was disclosed recently by the club's chairman Robert Munisi who insisted that the team is financially stable as such, even if the current pause of the league due to Covid-19 can be extended to a year, they can never be affected economically. "As you know, our team is owned by the government and 15 of our players who trade in the top flight league are employees at the Ministry of Home Affairs as well as Police hence the team can survive without problems," he said.  He, however conceded that if the league will proceed without supporters, players on the field can feel lonely as a result of lack of the 12th player who is a sports fan. He added that the only tough thing he foresees before the league resumes is for other players who went to their respective countries such that when they will be coming back, they would spend 14 days in quarantine a thing he said can have a negative effect to their teams. "We are well prepared as a club and we have short as well as long term plans to the extent that even if we can win the league, the team can manage to fulfill its international obligations without any problems," said he.  In a related development, the club's Information Officer Frank Lukwalo said striker Marcel Kaheza whose one-year loan from Simba expires at the end of the season has assisted them a lot. "Until now, I cannot comment on whether his contract will be extended or not because we are waiting for the official report from the coach about who to keep and who should be released. "Everything here moves smoothly such that the club has ability to keep any player who will be recommended by the coach to remain," he said. On the league table, Polisi Tanzania are placed on 6th place with 45 points after 29 matches and are just one point below fifth placed Coastal Union who have bagged 46 points. The Moshi based club has had a smooth ride in the top flight league this season and have been among the tough opponents to face especially when at their turf Ushirika Stadium.