THESE are really trying times. Every morning, we look forward to some good news from those at the forefront of fighting the Covid- 19. But all we keep getting are bulletins of increasing numbers of those infected and of those who have lost their lives; of lockdown days being extended, and such gloomy information. But not all is doom and gloom. From Nairobi, the following headline surely makes good reading: “University students develop ventilators in fight against Covid-19”. What has happened? “A group of 16 Engineering students from Kenyatta University (KU) have developed the much needed respirators in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic”. “If all goes well, they will begin the mass production of the ventilators to help the country’s hospitals ‘to carter for’ patients of the Covid-19 pandemic”. No, it is not “to carter”. Indeed, there does not seem to be a verb “to carter”, at least according to my reference English dictionary. Instead, we have a noun: “carter”, meaning a person who drives a cart. It looks like by ‘carter for’, the writer meant “cater for”; that is, to meet the needs, or requirements of a defined category of people. Thus, the developed ventilators will help hospitals to “cater for” the needs of patients of the Covid-19 epidemic”. These are also the times when skills to rescue people are badly needed; and that is why this headline on the sports section of the Custodian (April 8, page 30) is interesting: “Kigamboni to host ‘life-serving’ and diving course for girls”. Before you conclude that this is a mere typing error, read on: “Dar es Salaam-based Kimimba Swimming Promotions (KSP) has said, plans are underway to host ‘life-serving’ and diving course for the City’s secondary school girls to take place in Kigamboni”. The course instructor is a former swimmer and one of the officials at KSP which offers basic and intermediate courses in ‘life-serving’ skills, swimming and diving skills”. Somewhere halfway through the article, the writer realised his mistake: An official is quoted as saying: “The aim of the course is to train secondary school girls on life saving and diving lessons”. Yes, it is “lifesaving” not “life serving” skills. However, I would re-write the last sentence in the above paragraph, since you do not normally train people “in lessons”. You give them lessons in something. I would say: “The aim of the course is to equip secondary school girls with diving and life-saving skills”. As would be expected, the organisers are reported to have been apprehensive whether they could offer the programme, given the current circumstances dominated by Covid-19. We leave Kigamboni and go to Kilosa where a correspondent filed a news item titled: “Mhenda villagers call for government intervention over land dispute” (Custodian 11 April, p. 7). The item goes on: “Villagers at Mhenda in Kilosa District, Morogoro Region have called upon the government to intervene in a land dispute that has lasted for over 14 years between the villagers and the owner of the 623 acre farm. The villagers claimed to have been conducting agricultural activities at the farm which has now been restricted by the owner”. The last sentence in the above paragraph needs some adjustment, for, what had been restricted is agricultural activities, so the sentence needs to reflect this: “The villagers claimed to have been conducting agricultural activities at the farm which ‘have’ (not ‘has’) now been restricted by the owner”. One of the villagers came up with a plea: “The government should ‘intervene the matter’ because the investor had failed to develop the farm for many years now”. You do not normally “intervene something”. You “intervene in” something, and this is what the government is being enjoined to do: “The government should ‘intervene in the matter’ because the investor has failed to develop the farm for many years now”. Please, continue observing all recommended precautions against the spread of Covid-19, including wearing a mask when in public.  