THE absence of competitive sports due to the semilockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the deadly corona virus has exposed us to numerous problems we have for years had in our sporting fields. Without this semi lockdown on competitive sports, we would not have known that coaches of premier league clubs have had, for a long time, problems in getting their players to train together due to lack of discipline and determination on the part of the players. Without this semi lockdown, we would not have known that our soccer players don’t train, individually, in their respective homes. That whatever performance they have been demonstrating in their respective league matches have stemmed from training they have had as a team and under the tutelage of their respective coaches. And without this semi lockdown, we would also not have known that our U-17 national players only train when they are provided with a coach! That we have massive shortage of soccer coaches for training our children and that could probably explain why we have a telling dearth of good, young players. We have come to learn of the foregoing problems in soccer not to talk of other sports disciplines. One wonders what kind of problems we have in other sports disciplines. When the semi lockdown was first imposed a few weeks ago, I suggested, in one of my sports columns, the need to use this semi lockdown on competitive sports in planning for our soccer development. In fact, I was not alone in making such a suggestion. Many people at home and abroad made similar suggestions through our different, local and international media outlets, including the social media. And we cannot today claim that we did not hear or learn of such suggestions. Personally, I made the suggestion because the absence of competitive sports afforded us the opportunity not only to plan for our sports, but also to review our past sports performance. But now we know our sports problems which include what I have enumerated above, and it would make sense if we started working on the problems we already know. For soccer coaches of our premier league clubs, this is the time to find out why our soccer players who are paid to play lack discipline and determination which are crucial for turning around their own soccer fortune. We really need to sit down and find out how a person who knows that, he can only bring food on his table through football, lacks discipline and determination to practice in order to step up his performance on the pitch, hence produce the desired results which earn him money. For readers who had read my column last week, would recall that I wrote on the need for even psychologists to be roped in to help in finding out whether or not some of our players have medical problem. And talking about psychological problems, we need, as a nation to start looking critically at this problem because some of the utterances we make and which relate to sports raise a lot of problem over the mental and sometimes physical fitness of our bodies. For instance, when we are supposed to be looking inwardly, in solving our sports problems, some have started talking about their plans to buy foreign players! Now how do you buy foreign players at a time when the country is supposed to be extremely careful, about the possible spread of the deadly virus by and through our own people who have not travelled outside the country, as had been noted by our minister for health on Thursday this week? If the threat on the spread of the deadly disease could now be within, how do you really talk about foreign players? This is precisely what I meant when I said some of the people in our sports fraternity may be facing serious health problems which may need looking into. We really need to put our heads together and work on how we can overcome our sports problems now when the corona virus problem has afforded us the opportunity of remaining at home. We need to use this period of enforced ‘holiday’ to solve our problems, which include those afflicting our sports. For instance, how do we solve the problem of shortage of soccer coaches for training our children? How do we deal with players who lack discipline and determination? In my last column, I wrote the need to review contracts that our soccer clubs enter with their respective soccer players. I said we needed to bind our players to discipline and determination; and that in order to bring the two into play, we need to find out how the new contract can handle discipline and determination of our players. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through: tagalileattilio@yahoo. co.uk 0754279655