OFFICIALS, including experts and authorities dealing with land management in Dodoma region  have been urged to  desist from indulging in bureaucratic practices in  service delivery, and instead their conduct should be guided by rules and regulations. The advice was issued here over the weekend by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development, Ms Mary Makondo to regional authorities, where she said the government expects the best services with increased productivity to the public. She said apart from being guided by the laid down rules and regulations, the region's land authorities, she said, must settle land conflicts by meeting with all conflicting parties to look for lasting solutions. ‘’Bureaucracies should come to an end, our core objective is to serve the public, as our customer has to be told where he/she has gone against the procedures, and in so doing, rectify the situation for the best land sector and offer the best services” said Ms Makondo She was also closing a training program for regional land officers from Morogoro, Manyara, Singida and Dodoma, where she insisted on the need for them to be innovative and fast tracking issues that are of great importance in their respective areas. “Let’s stop bureaucracy, our target should be to serve customers instead of threatening and disappointing them. You should also abide by the codes of ethics for civil servants as well as the country’s laws and guidelines”, she said. She called on regional land commissioners to give priority in resolving land disputes since they are among the major challenges facing the sector. Makondo directed land officers to speed up issuance of title deeds so that many Tanzanians can own their land plots legally. She added that provision of title deeds would enable them to use the documents as collateral when accessing bank loans. Chief government land valuer, Evelyn Mugisha said the training will go a long way into reducing land conflicts and improve service provision in the country. Land conflicts have been a common feature of economic livelihoods in Tanzania. The conflicts have been on the increase, and one of the causes for increasing conflicts over land resources are due to human population. Various actors, including civil society organisations, have tried to address the farmer–pastoralist conflicts through mass education programmes, land-use planning, policy reforms and the development of community institutions. The main cause of the challenge have been nomadic farming and double allocation.  