Continued from last week LAST  Sunday, 26th  April,  2020,  was  the  56th  anniversary  of the  historic  unification  of  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar,  an  event  which  took  place  on  26th  April,  1964. I  therefore  considered  it   most  appropriate,  and  befitting,   to  devote  today’s  article  to  the  commemoration  of  that  important major   event  in  the  political  history  of  our  country:  The  birth  of  the  new  nation  of  Tanzanians;  and  my  involvement  in  the  ‘legal  making’  of  this  new  nation,  through  its  legislative  process. From  Tanganyika  to  Tanzania.  The  birth  of  another  new  nation Union  Day,  1964,  actually  terminated  the  existence  of  the  country  called  Tanganyika,  and  its  nation  of  Tanganyikans;  and  gave  birth  of  another  new  country  Tanzania,  and  its  new  nation  of  Tanzanians. The  captivating  story  of  the  succession  of  events  leading  to  the  establishment  of  the  historic  political  Union,  is  succinctly  told  in  my  Kiswahili  book  titled  “Historia  ya  Muungano  wa  Tanganyika  na  Zanzibar” (Tanzania Educational  Publishers,  Bukoba, 2019).   But  we  will  present   here  a  short   summary  of  that  process,  inside   Parliament The  Parliamentary   process As  Clerk  of  the  National  Assembly,  I  was  directly  involved  in  this  parliamentary  process;  Which  started  with  the  ratification  of  the  Agreement  for  this  Union.                                                                                                                         The  Agreement  which  gave  birth  to  the  political  Union  between  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar  is  cited  as  the  “Articles  of  Union”. It  was  an  international  Agreement  (between  two  separate  countries),  and   thus,  it  required  ratification  by  the  Legislatures  of  both  these  countries,  in  order  to  give  it  legal  validity. That  is  how  I  got  closely  involved,  because  I  was  the  Clerk  of  the  National  Assembly  at  the  material  time. My  involvement  in  this  process It  was  on  Tuesday,  21st  April,  1964,  when  I  received  a  call  from  President  Nyerere’s  Private  Secretary,  summoning  me  to  report  to  the  President  urgently   at  his  Office.  On  arrival  there,  the  President  gave  instructions  that  he  wanted  an  extraordinary  meeting  of  the  National  Assembly  to  be  held  before  the  end  of  that  week.  But  he  did  not  disclose  the  purpose  of  that  meeting,  and  I  did  not  have  the  courage  to  ask. I  returned  to  my  office  and  immediately  started  calling  the  MPs  by  telephone,  to  inform  them  of  the  President’s  wish  for  an  urgent  extraordinary  National  Assembly  meeting,  before  the  end  of  that  week,  and  asking  them  all  to   be  assembled  in  Dar  es  Salaam   by  Thursday  evening.                                                                                                                   The  President  had  subsequently  decided  that  the  said  meeting  should  be  held  on  Saturday, 25th  April,  1964;  and  that  he  would  come  to  address  the  House  himself. That  is  when  the  purpose  of  that  extraordinary  meeting  became  publicly  known,  after  being  disclosed  in  the  President’s  speech:   It  was  to  ratify  the  Agreement  for  the  Union  between  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar. The  negotiations  leading  to  the signing  of  this  Agreement  had  been  conducted  in   great  secrecy,  due  to  the  fear  and  apprehension  that  if  the  matter  became  publicly  known,  the  process  might  be  disrupted  by  the  sworn  enemies  of  such  political  unifications. Thus,  after  the  President’s  speech  had  been  delivered,  and  the  President  had  left  Karimjee  Hall,  the  House  started  discussing  the  relevant  Government  Bill,  which  was  introduced  under  the  certificate  of  urgency  procedure.  Section 4  of  that  Bill  provided  as  follows:  “The  Republic  of  Tanganyika  and  the  Peoples’  Republic  of  Zanzibar  shall,  upon  Union  Day  and  ever  after, be  united  into  one  Sovereign  Republic  by  the  name  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar”.  (This  name  was  subsequently  changed  to  ‘the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania;  by  Act  no.  61  of  1964,  which  was  enacted  by  the  Union  Parliament  on  28th  October,  1964). The  significance  of  the  words  “and  ever  after”  which  appear  in  that  section  should  be  specially  noted,  for  the  manifest  Parliament’s  intention  that  this  Union  should  last  ‘for  ever  and  ever’.   Perhaps all successive Tanzanian  generations  should  say  AMEN ? President  Nyerere  had earlier   instructed  me  to  deliver  the  ratification  Bill  to  him  immediately  after  it  had  been  passed  by  the  National  Assembly,  in  order  for  him  to  sign  it  into  law;  Which  was  promptly  done. President  Nyerere’s  speech also  revealed  the  reasons  which motivated  the  two  leaders  to  agree to  establish  this  Union.  He  mentioned  three  major  reasons.  One  was  the  ‘burning  desire’ (shauku  kubwa)  for  African  continental  unity;  The  other  was  the  existence  of  “a  long  beneficial  association  between  the  peoples  of  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar”;   and  the  third  was  “the  urgent  need  to  enhance  the  security  of  these  two  young  nations”. Indeed,   these  objectives  are  also  clearly stated  in  the  Preamble   to  the  “Articles  of  Union”,  which  states  as  follows:- “WHEREAS  the  Governments  of  the  Republic  of  Tanganyika  and  the  Peoples’  Republic  of  Zanzibar,  being  mindful  of  the  long   association  which   has  existed   between  the  peoples  of  these  lands,  and  of  their  ties  of  kinship  and  amity;  and  being  desirous  of  furthering  that  association  and  strengthening  these  ties;  AND  of  furthering  the  unity  of  African  peoples;  it  is  therefore  AGREED  as  follows . . .” There  were  no  celebrations Because  of  the  secrecy  that  had  surrounded  the  negotiations  leading to  the inauguration  of  this  Union, there  are  no  celebrations  that  took  place  on  that  day,  due  to  the  fact  that  there  had  been  no  time  to  make  preparations  for  any  celebratory  functions  to  take  place  on  that  day.  This  is  what  explains  why  the  now  traditional  Union  Day  celebrations,   only started  with  the  first  anniversary  of  the  Union   on  26th  April,  1965,  with  the  symbolic  mixing  of  soils  from  Tanganyika  and  from  Zanzibar;  to  symbolise  the  unification  of the  two  countries. The   establishment of  the  Union  States’  Government  and  Legislative  Organs The  ratification  of  the  Agreement  for  the  Union  between  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar  had  completed  the  process  of  forming  the  new  nation.  But  there  remained  the  task  of  putting  in  place, the  ‘Organs of  governance’  of  the  new  State,  namely the  Executive,  the  Legislature,  and  the  Judiciary. The  establishment  of  these   Organs The  ratification  of  the  Union Agreement  had  completed  the  process  of  forming   the  new  Sovereign  State.  It  was  now  necessary  to establish  its  governing  Organs;  namely  the  Union  Government,  and  the  Union  Parliament.  This  was   done  on  the  next  day,  Monday,  27th  April,  1964;  with  the  appointment  and  swearing-in  of  members  from  Zanzibar,  of  the  Union  Parliament,  plus the  appointment  of  the   members  of  the  Union  Cabinet. That  was  the  final  day  of  that  extraordinary  session  of  the  National  Assembly,  and  its  involvement  in  the  making  of  the  new  nation  of  Tanzanians. The  other important  matters  had  already  been  provided  for  in  ‘the  Articles  of  Agreement’.  These  were:  Firstly,  the  Interim  Constitution  of  the  United  Republic.  which  had  declared  President  Julius  Nyerere  of  Tanganyika  as  President  of  the  new  United  Republic,  and   Zanzibar  President  Abeid  Amani  Karume,  as  the Vice-President  of  the  United  Republic;  and  secondly, had  made  provision  for  eleven  matters  which  would  be  administered  by  the  Union  Government,  which  were  designated  as  “Union  Matters”.  (this  list was subsequently  progressively   expanded,  by  legislative  action,  to  22  matters). Similarly,  the  Constitution  of  the  United  Republic  was  also  declared  by  the  same  ‘Articles  of  Union’;  Which  provided  that  the  existing  Constitution  of  Tanganyika  would  be  the  interim  Constitution  of  the  United  Republic,  subject to   specified  modifications  which  were  made  therein  to  provide  for  (i) a  separate Executive  and  a  separate  Legislature  for  Zanzibar;  (ii)  the  representation   of  Zanzibar  in  the  Parliament  of  the  United  Republic;  and  (iii) the  creation  of  two  offices  of  Vice-President;  “One  of  whom, (being  a  person  normally  resident  in  Zanzibar)  was  to  be  the  Principal  Assistant  of  the  President  of  the  United  Republic  in  the execution  of  his  executive  functions  in  relation  to  Zanzibar;  and  the  other  was  to  be  the  Principal  Assistant  of  the  President  in  the  execution  of  his  executive  functions  in  relation  to  Tanganyika”. The  ratification  law  had  also  give   the  Union  President  the  power  to  make  laws  known  as  “Decrees”,  “  for  giving  effect  to  the  Articles  of  Union”.  Hence,  for  that  express  purpose,   the  following   two  Presidential  Decrees  were  made  and  published.  They  were:    (i)  The  Transitional   Provisions  Decree, (published  on 1/5/1964)                                  This  Decree  transferred  “all  persons  who  were  holding  office  in  the  Service  of  the  Republic  of  Tanganyika,  to  corresponding  offices  in  the  Service  of  the  United  Republic”.  The  High  Court  of  Tanganyika  became  the  High  Court  of  the  United  Republic;  and  the  Tanganyika  Public  Seal  became  the  Public  Seal  of  the  United  Republic”. (ii)  The  Transitional  Provisions  (no 2) Decree,  1964 (published  on  15/6/ 1964.  This  Decree  made  the  following  provisions:- (a)  “Any  reference  to  “Tanganyika”   in  all  the  existing  law,  to  be  read  as  reference  to  the  United  Republic.                                                                                         (b)  Any  reference  to  the  Government  of  Tanganyika,  or  any  matter  or  thing  in  any  way  belonging  to  or  connected  with  the  said  Government,  to  be  read  as  reference  to  the  Government  of  the  United  Republic”. The  cumulative  effect  of  these  legislative  measures,  was  that  the  political  entity  which  had  hitherto  existed  with  the  name  of  ‘Tanganyika’;  was  decreed  totally  out  of  existence.  That  is  the  reason  why  the   geographical   territory   formerly  known  as  ‘Tanganyika’,  was  re-named  ‘Tanzania  Mainland’. Having  thus  reminded  ourselves  about  the  genesis  of  our  cherished  Union,  we  can  now    return  to  ‘the  story  of  my  life  in  the  Service  of  our  nation’  in  its  chronological  order.                                                                                                             We  ended  last  week  with  the  events  of  1994,   when  the   National  Assembly had   rescinded  its  controversial  resolution,  calling  for  the  establishment  of  a  Tanganyika  government  within  the  Union  structure. What  followed  soon  thereafter  in  the  National  Assembly,  was  my  election  to  the  Speakership. My  election  to  the  Speakership  of  the  National  Assembly Towards  the  end  of   April,   1994,  veteran  Speaker  Adam  Sapi  Mkwawa,  decided  to  retire  from  office  due  to  his  continuing  ill  health.  Thus,  as  provided  for  in  article  149 (1) (c)  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  he  wrote  his  letter  of  resignation  to  be  presented   to  the  National  Assembly;  Which  was  read  in  the  House  on  24th  April,  1994. The  Constitution  further  provides  that,   whenever  the  position  of  Speaker  is  vacant  for  any  reason,  the  National  Assembly  cannot  validly  transact  business.   Consequently,  after  reading  the  Speaker’s  resignation  letter,  I  adjourned  the  sitting of  the  House  sine  die,  i.e.  without  fixing  a  date  for  its  next  sitting;  in  order  to  enable  the  election  process  for  his  successor  to  take  place.  I  joined  that   race,  in  which  there  were  two  of  us  as  candidates. The  election  itself  was  held  on  27th  April, 1994;  and,  by  the  grace  of  God,  I  got  elected.  (and  by  sheer  coincidence,  that  was  also  the  date  on  which   Nelson  Mandela  was  elected  President  of  South  Africa,  a  major   historic  occurrence). Hence,  now  that  the  Speaker’s  vacancy  had  been  filled,  the  constitutional  requirement  for  the  National  Assembly  to  transact  business  had  been  fulfilled.  It  therefore  immediately  resumed  its  April  meeting,  which  had  been  temporarily  interrupted;  and  with  a  newly  born  Speaker  in  the  Chair.  (or  with ‘a new  Sherriff  in  Town’. The  momentous  events  of  the  year  1995 The  year  1995  was  also  general  election  year,  which  was  also  the  end  of  President  Mwinyi’s  second  and  final  term  in  office.  But  it  also  turned,  as  we  shall  see, out  to  be  a  year  of  great  momentous  changes. (Will   be  continued  next  week) Piomsekwa@gmail.com  /  0754767576.      