Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday presided over national prayers in Dar es Salaam led by top religious leaders, stressing that despite anti-Covid-19 measures being instituted, the government still believed in divine intervention in containing the pandemic. Speaking yesterday during the event, the prime minister said since  the outbreak of the disease mid last month, the government has been working closely with religious leaders as part of efforts to contain the spread of the novel virus. The  premier referred to  Ephesians  6: 11 which reads:   “Put on  the full armor of  God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes,” and  Holy Quran which  reads  “Pray to Me, and I will accept your prayers.” “Apart from taking all precautionary measures, we are  supposed to pray to our Almighty God as we fight   the coronavirus pandemic” Mr Majaliwa stressed. He reminded religious leaders to continue taking preventive measures against the disease by disseminating correct information about the disease to worshippers. The prayer session held yesterday was a continuation of the three-day national prayers announced by President John Magufuli which were concluded on April 19 this year. The  session  was organized  by the Ministry  of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and  Children in collaboration with  religious leaders  from   different  faiths  in the  country. In  a meeting held on April 9 this year in Dar es Salaam comprising  religious leaders  and the government, the clerics  resolved to  hold  the special  prayer  against  COVID -19  that  would involve all  religious  faiths. Top clerics  who led  the  national payer included  Tanzania  Chief Mufti  Sheikh Abubakar Zubeir, Evangelical Lutheran  Church in  Tanzania  (ELCT)  East and Coastal  Diocece  Dr  Alex Malasusa, who  represented  Christian Council of Tanzania  (CCT),Archbishop of Dar es Salaam, Yuda Thaddaeus Ruwa'ichi,  Archbishop Mark Malekana  who represented SDA  churches in the country. Others are Head of the Shia, Sheikh Hemed Jalala and   Deputy Kadhi  of Zanzibar  Sheikh Hassan Othman  Ngwali . Other clerics  who   took  part  in the prayer  were from Bohra Community ,  Council of  Pentecostal  Churches  of Tanzania  and Buddhist Community . Leading the prayers, Sheikh Zubeir asked God to heal the nation from the respiratory disease which has affected not only Tanzania but also other countries in the world. He said that   although  scientists and other experts  were  searching for  a cure  and  vaccine  of the novel  virus,   God  has the power  to free  the nation  from the scourge . On his  part,  Bishop Malasusa  said  God’s  words remind  people of his great  power  and  help in time of need. He referred to the biblical message from the book of Isaiah that reads “Come now, let us settle the matter,” says the Lord, saying  they  have gathered  to  pray  to  God  so that   He can   free  the  nation and the  world  in general from  coronavirus pandemic. “Although we respect  all the efforts  being  undertaken by  scientists  they are also  created by God … although we believe and accept  medicines which  we are given  but they are also  produced  by  human beings ,” he said. Archbishop Ruwa'ichi   said,   Lord taught his people to pray,  citing  the biblical message   that  reads, “Ask, and it shall be given  to you; seek, and you  will  find; knock, and the door will be opened to  you: “We come to you with   faith and hope as we pray  for  your mercy  on our  nation  to be  saved  from  the coronavirus  pandemic  and heal all people who have contracted  the disease,”  he   prayed.