TOURISM and hospitality industry have maintained that Tanzania destination remains open for business and continues to welcomes tourists, taking precautions and measures put in place by the government, the key players joint statement has said. Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (TATO) and Hotel Association of Tanzania (HAT) members met recently to look at ways at which to work together with the government to ensure compliance of the safety directives issued by the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children for the interests of the public and tourists at large. “TATO and HAT would like to assure the holiday-makers that Tanzania government is taking all necessary measures to ensure their safety and that there will be minimal inconveniences for their travel,” reads part of the statement signed by TATO CEO, Mr Sirili Akko and HAT CEO, Ms Nuralisa Karamagi. Last month, the government issued a travel advisory for tourists welcomed in the country stating that all travellers whether foreigners or returning residents arriving from COVID-19 most affected countries will be subjected to mandatory isolation for 14 days at their own cost at designated facilities identifies by the government. Passengers should fill in Health Surveillance Form in the plane, or any other transports means and submit them to Port Health Authorities upon arrival. All travellers arriving will be subjected to an intensive screening and where necessary COVID- 19 rapid testing. Tanzania’s tourism industry as one of the fastest growing sectors in the country with figures showing a continued growth on tourist arrivals. For instance, Tanzania’s earnings from tourism jumped 7.13 percent in 2018, helped by an increase in arrivals from foreign visitors, according to the government. Tourism is the main source of hard currency in Tanzania, best known for its beaches, wildlife safaris and Mount Kilimanjaro. Revenues from tourism fetched 2.43 billion US dollars for the year 2018, up from 2.19 billion US dollar in 2017. Tourist arrivals totaled 1.49 million in 2018, compared with 1.33 million a year ago, Majaliwa said.