WHILE many of us are grappling with and contending to keep-up on what might happen subsequent to US oil prices traded below zero for the first time ever in history. Spinning producers and merchants mainly paying other market accomplices to take the oil off their hands. My worry is what these market self-motivated mean to a Tanzania industrialist or general businesses? Should we celebrate oil dipping prices or should we get ready for worse? With sufficient storage in question unobtainable to those who need, while  panic amongst traders holding derivative contracts develop, fears now are on whether traders with long-term leases will probably be able to score huge profits or suffer losses. While one and all in this week is overwhelmed and surprised with swings in the global economy. As nothing compares to the plummeting value of global crude oil price, crude prices crashed below 0 US dollars for the first time in history has thrown investors around the world off guard. While trading unfinished futures for May 2020 is in a dilemma for USA market, the price stands at minus 4.6 US dollars per barrel at the time of writing this article. Due to lack of demand could lead to a far-reaching fall in global crude oil prices. Within an on-going oil dipping prices, pros and cons of cheaper crude oil and what this price fall mean to the Tanzania industrialist and businesses is focus of thought offered here. Much as views may differ on how much more crude oil prices will drop, there is no uncertainty given no vaccine has been found, low rates are here to stay for some time. While some submissions as cited in the media debates that a level below 0 US dollars a barrel can drag the energy product a further fall. Instead of being a blessing in disguise can have worse repercussion that can ultimately put on pressure on our shilling. Forecasts of recovery in crude oil prices look uninviting. For Tanzania, the net oil importer, cheaper oil will help lower its current account arrears through imports and more benefits could have been attained if under its bulk procurement system, the country had in place enough storage capacity. Design and risk assessment is desirable in building storage capacity that may turn out to be an expensive investment. If Tanzania has more storage capacity to store fuel for its local and storage for transit goods, we as country serving more than five land locked countries could have enjoyed the opportunity. While Tanzanian oil marketing companies based in Tanzania are argued to have enough storage capacity constrained by the way orders are given and supply is met. It is high time for these companies to think big and see future opportunities that could generate profit from hospitality storage charges and fees. A bonanza from cheaper oil in the USA will result in drop in prices in the Middle East where most of imports occurs and in total will cause drop in production costs for various industries in Tanzania. Nonetheless, from an economic point of view, there will be disadvantages from lower crude oil prices that will not spare Tanzania. The global oil market of recently has been feeling the pinch of the plunge caused by not agreeing on production levels amongst major oil producing nations. With USA price dropping shock, at the bigger picture prices of most commodities will certainly be affected. For instance, ethanol, heating oil, natural gas, coal, copper, steel, cotton, rice, rubber, soybean, sugar, rice and wheat following low prices fall has all plummeted as allude to in the media by over 20 percent in the last one year alone triggered by low off takers. This means returns to farmers and producers and investors will be lower, thus decreasing their purchasing power, and I am yet to find a setting that could persuade financial institutions such as banks to extend credits to borrowers while expecting low returns. For example, in 2012, Tanzania through NDC had strong-mind to revive its 750 hectares of rubber in Kalunga, Morogoro Region and Muheza in Tanga. Reviving 750 hectares was scheduled to setting up project that would encourage small scale farmers to engage in large scale rubber production while more farmers were to be encouraged to establish their farms in the neighbourhood. The actuality is that with crude oil prices ruling low, natural rubber market from Tanzanians who might have taken initiative to get involved in rubber farms will have been on string since the user industry has the option to switch over to cheaper synthetic rubber. Similarly, palm oil and vegetable oils will also be under pressure in view of lower prices. Ethanol production at current crude oil level is unviable, while demand for vegetable oils for bio-diesel will be subdued. There are other risks too such as exports being affected. Tanzania depends on India and China for a lot for its exports such as industrial minerals, peas, cotton, and cashew to mention a few. When India or China, let's say continue to suffer from lower economic lockdown caused by Covid-19 and now crude oil prices, these nations will have a tendency to import less or ensure that their foreign exchange outgo is restricted. In turn, Tanzanian shipments abroad could be hit. Falling oil prices will hurt key sector of the stock market since given higher supply is a major reason for oil dipping, investors might be concerned that dipping prices are a sign of falling demand due to slowing global growth, hence investors in importing nations might cut back on capital outlays. On government side there will be an bearing on taxes, fees and charges as it is known that  for every litre of fuel be it petrol or diesel a consumer pays, a certain percentages goes to the government in the form of direct taxes.   