AFTER a week of tumultuous, Young Africans has appointed two new members of the Executive Committee. According to a statement issued by the club yesterday, the appointed members are Suma Mwaitenda and Haruna Batenga. The appointment follows resignation last week of three members of the committee, while two others have been suspended. Shija Richard, Rodgers Gumbo and Said Kambi all stepped down, the decision that was blessed by the club leadership. The statement said the members were appointed in accordance with Section 29 (3) of the club’s constitution. Yanga Chairman Mshindo Msolla said last week that the club’s Executive Committee received and approved the trio’s decision to resign. "A week ago, the club’s Excom also resolved to suspend two members –Salim Rupia and Frank Kamugisha with immediate effect, pending the decision of the General Meeting, according to the club’s constitution,” reads the statement. The decision to suspend the duo was reached by the Executive Committee that convened in Dar es Salaam last Thursday and Friday. The meeting was summoned following recent complaints raised by one of the team’s main sponsors GSM against some club officials. In his brief statement to announce his decision to step down, Richard cited internal squabbles. Richard, Rupia, Gumbo and Kamugisha were reportedly to have been at loggerhead with the team’s main sponsors GSM, demanding clarity in the deal. In his brief statement, Shija said; “Yanga is bigger than an individual like me and any other. So many things are going around but I will not divulge anything…time will tell. I’m quite sure that the truth will come to the shore,” he said. Two days ago, GSM announced that henceforth, they will only concentrate to what is contained in the contract between the two sides and not otherwise. A letter from GSM to Yanga dated March 24th this year and signed by GSM’s Project Executive Feisal Mohamed, which went viral on different social media platforms, disclosed that the former were deeply concerned with actions by some leaders of the club, who accused GSM of interfering in their roles. “Let me take this opportunity to thank the entire leadership of Yanga for the cooperation they made towards ensuring that our club restores its reputation. It should be remembered that we have tried on our part to solve some of the challenges faced by the club even though they were not included in our contract,” reads part of the letter. It named some of the things which they (GSM) fulfilled but were aside from the signed contract between the two parties as bringing back the team’s central defender Lamine Moro, signing other players to strengthen the squad like Bernard Morrison, Haruna Niyonzima, Ditram Nchimbi and Adeyum Saleh. “To hire and pay all expenses of the team’s Head Coach and fitness coach plus covering their accommodations and transport within the country as well as paying salaries and bonuses whenever the team won the league match from December last year. “We also pledged 200m/- to motivate players to win their traditional derby match against Simba, which was later fulfilled plus footing all camp and hotel bills from December last year, including air tickets for players and officials of the club,” reads the letter.