LAND reforms under the Fifth Phase Government have marked the end offrequent land conflicts between pastoralists and farmers, whichtremendously paralyzed economic and social development in various areas. The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements started issuing village land certificates to village councils for supervision of village land which is legally under the ownership of all villagers. The certificates show borders between one village and another, the size of village land, type of land uses such as agriculture and pastoral uses. The Ministry has so far issued 2,513 certificates to village councils in various areas in the country. The government also formed a National Committee which is geared towards assessing and recommending lasting solutions to frequent land conflicts between pastoralists and farmers. So far, the National Committee which draws its members from 8 sectors addressed land conflicts in at least 920 of 975 villages, which had land use conflicts with game reserves and parks authorities. The Committee, in agreement with members of the community returned the villages, which were within game reserves and parks, to members of the community for arranging fresh land uses. About 10,000 land conflicts have been resolved by senior officials of the Ministry and council executives. At least 79, 753 land conflict cases were resolved by land tribunals for the past four years. Under the Land Tenure Support Programme, Land Tenure Assistance plus the number of activities carried out by MKURABITA, National Land Use Plan Commission and District Councils have helped to uplift the level of revenues imposed on land from 54.1bn/- in 2015 to 100bn/- in 2019/2020. The Ministry has improved revenue collection imposed on land thanks to the introduction of online payment system through mobile phones. Members of the public now do not need to go all the way to district council offices to pay for land. Integrated Land Management Information System (ILMIS) The government introduced ILMIS to improve records and documents on land to facilitate activities and processes of land ownership. The new system which is implemented at the first phase has improved the National Land Information Centre in Dar es Salaam. The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements has carried out data conversion and placed into ILMIS close to 647,996 files with title deeds registration and land survey as well as ownership documents. The government started to introduce online title deeds thanks to ILMIS. The government had already issued about 3,469 title deeds online. Assessment and Compensation Payment in national projects The Ministry managed to assess compensation in major international and national projects such as Nyerere Hydro-Power Project whose dam should be built near three hotels, which had to be removed to give room for the project construction and the areas where the Uganda-Tanzania Crude Oil pipeline will be laid. The Uganda-Tanzania Crude Oil Pipeline also known as the East African Crude Oil Pipeline is under construction and is intended to transport crude oil from Uganda’s oil fields to the Port of Tanga, Tanzania on the Indian Ocean. The pipeline will pass through Kagera Region and loop around the southern shores of Lake V ictoria, continue through Shinyanga and Singida to end in Tanga, a distance of approximately 1,410 kilometres. Master plan. The Ministry, in conjunction with the President’s Office responsible for Regional Administration and Local Government, developed master plans for Dodoma, Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Mwanza. The Ministry also finalized development of master plans for Tabora, Musoma, Iringa, Songea, Kigoma-Ujiji, Mtwara Mikindani, Sumbawanga, Lindi, Bukoba, Morogoro as well as other towns including Kibaha, Korogwe, Bariadi, Geita and Babati. Master plans for the other towns including Mbeya, Tanga, Bukoba and Mpanda municipalities are still in the pipeline. Mortgage. The Ministry also managed to expand scope for mortgage to enable members of the public get access to mortgages in order to own ideal residential houses. The number of financial institutions offering mortgages has increased from 3 banks in 2009 to 32 banks in 2019. Interest rate for mortgages has declined from 21 per cent in 2009 to 13 per cent in 2019. The government had started to dole out funds through the Tanzania Mortgage Refining Company (TMRC) to enable the institutions issue mortgages. For the past five years, about 10, 373 people have benefited from mortgages worth 892bn/-. The Ministry in conjunction with the Bank of Tanzania started to issue mortgages through Housing Microfinance Fund with decreased interest rate of 7.5 per cent from 10 per cent. The period for repayment has been increased from five to ten years to encourage more people to apply for mortgages. While inaugurating the eleventh National Assembly on November 2015, President John Magufuli pointed out areas which most people complained about as land use between pastoralists and farmers. “We have promised to address and end frequent land conflicts between pastoralists and farmers,” said the Head of State. Dr Magufuli further said his government had promised wananchi that they will no longer be bothered in their own land when an investor sets up business, saying no one will be evicted from the area because of investors.