SOME 45 women from Mureru village, Balangdalalu ward here have been supported to initiate economic projects so as to reduce dependency and enhance family wellbeing. The initiative has been undertaken by the Ujamaa Community Resources (UCRT) in collaboration with Oxfam Tanzania. Beneficiaries to the project said their lives will change and the good thing is that they will no longer be taken as burden in their societies, families and particularly by their husbands. Ms Felista Giyam who is treasurer to the group dubbed Muungano, thanked Oxfam and UCRT for getting them the project and now share responsibilities with their families to make both ends meet. She said that since inception of the project, they have invited some men and collaborate with them. “We are together in this; we thank the two organizations for enabling us move from total dependence and we have gone a step further to work with men in our group,” said Ms Giyam. Another member of the group, Ms Anna Iselu said they are cultivating different kinds of crops and asked the government to support them in getting reliable markets from within and outside the country. She, however, said, they were making profit in their activities but if the government chips in they would get even more. “We incur a lot of costs on inputs during cultivation of crops but later it happens that there are challenges in getting reliable markets and good prices. This holds us back in development. The government should support us so that we are through this,” said Ms Iselu. Mr Charles Kidaguwione of the beneficiaries in the project said the project has been helpful in making him earn an income to support his family. He said it was a good initiative to support the women who were, otherwise staying at home all day long. Mr Donath Fungu – the Oxfam Project Manager in the Northern Zone said the project pays as emancipating women specifically from poverty. He said it helps heighten women personality. He said once women are financially stable it means they would be able to support their families and communities generally. Project Coordinator with the UCRT, Mr Albert Masuja said their primary aim is to improve women economically in groups so as to work together and increase efficiency. He said that in collaboration with Oxfam, they want women to own land and have so far enabled 365 women in that. He said there are other women in a group called Hamasa who work along the youth in economic emancipation so that later they come to build sound families.