Tanzanians are marking the 56th Union anniversary today but with little pomp and fanfare as the nation takes cautionary measures to curb the spread Covid-19. The Union formed after two independent states of Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged on 26 April, 1964, is marked today in Tanzania while social gatherings are banned as part of measures to prevent further spread of the coronavirus disease. President John Magufuli banned Union celebrations held annually on 26th of April and directed 500m/- set as a budget for the Union Day celebrations  to be reallocated to the fund for fighting coronavirus. Tanzania confirmed its first case of coronavirus on March 16, prompting a ban of all public gatherings to prevent the spread of the disease. Infection cases of the disease reached 299 as at Friday with ten deaths, according to the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu. She said in a statement that  37 more people had recovered from coronavirus and 71 patients were awaiting final tests before they can be discharged. But despite the Covid-19 challenges, Tanzanians have every reason to be proud of the Union as it grows stronger and more relevant, bringing hopes for a better future for Tanzanians in Mainland and Zanzibar, said the Minister of State in the Vice President's Office (Union and Environment), Mussa Azzan Zungu. He said in a statement that the Union was growing from strength to strength due to strong determination of the founders, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Abeid Amani Karume, ideal policies of the government, efforts sustained by government leaders who succeeded the founders and support from Tanzanians. "In 56 years of the Union, we have witnessed significant achievements to be proud of as our Union is unique that has survived in challenges that faced even other countries that wished to unite. Tanzanians have built unity and sustainable principles of brotherhood as a testimony that the union continues to grow stronger," he said in the statement that is published in inside pages. The two sides of the Union have built systems to promote transparency in running of government affairs under principles of democracy and good governance. The principles have strengthened due to good understanding of the philosophyaccountability for leaders at all levels of the Union and Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar.