AS cases of Covid-19 reach 94, the Dar es Salaam regional authority has dispatched over 500 social workers to provide psychological counselling services across the five districts of the country’s commercial capital. The Zanzibar government announced six new cases of Coronavirus on Thursday, bringing to 24 the total number of victims in the islands. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Tanzania has jumped from 88 to 94. Health Minister Hamad Rashid Mohammed said in a statement that the new victims include one 58-year old lady and a Kilimahewa Juu resident. All the confirmed patients have already been taken to the designated treatment centres in the city, according to the minister. Other victims are 30-year old resident of Kibweni; 27-year old Magogoni resident; 28-year old resident of Kwarara; 55-year old resident of Kidoti and the youngest of them being a 23-year old Amani resident. All the patients are Tanzanians with no history of travelling outside the country in recent days, said Mr Hamad. The minister insisted on precautionary measures, including hand washing and observance of directives from the government and health experts to protect themselves against the deadly infections. He warned people with symptoms of the infections against intermingling with other people to avoid further spread of the virus. The minister also condemned the habit by some people to treat themselves, describing the tendency as highly dangerous. Already, the government has ordered all bars and entertainment spots to remain closed until further notice as the islands strive to curb the deadly virus. The revolutionary government has also  outlawed gatherings, arguing that crowds contribute over 60 per cent to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Isles government has restricted all markets to "pick and rush" scenes, discouraging discussions at the markets, which have to close operations by 6pm, daily. All visitors to the country are subject to testing before being allowed entry. The minister asked all wananchi to remain calm and adhere to  the 'stay home' directive, which he described as the most effective strategy for curbing the spread of the fatal virus. Dar es Salaam is the most hit region in the country, with 62 confirmed cases, by Thursday. The officers dispatched in 102 wards will provide counselling and support services such as psychological assistance, emotional support in the streets where COVID-19 confirmed or suspected patients have been identified. "The residents in any streets in need of such services will be required to call the numbers provided by the ministry of health and the social workers will be there as required," said the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Mr Paul Makonda. He added: "During the COVID-19 pandemic, you may experience stress, anxiety, fear, sadness and loneliness as well as mental health disorders, including anxiety and depression that is the main reason for us to dispatch our officers to help the community." Speaking during an event to receive Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to support the country's war on COVID-19, he reiterated the importance of each city dweller to play their role to contain the spread of the pandemic.
Mr Makonda said five emergency teams have been formed in the city after designating 24 sample collection centres.
"The President has provided the teams  25 brand new vehicles,  including ambulances. Instead of extending transmission chains in commuter bus (daladala) or taxi, we will follow people with COVID-19 symptoms where they are after calling us," he said. The region has named 24 sample collection centres across the five districts where suspects will have their samples collected and taken to the national health laboratory to prevent further spread. Mr Makonda also called on local government leaders to monitor any unnecessary gatherings in their areas as well as ensure children remain indoors after schools and university closures extensions. He received 6,000 gallons of sanitisers five litres each,  6,000 dispensers for commuter buses, 7,000 masks for health workers and 25 body sanitiser machines to be installed in congested areas of the city, including markets. The equipment worth 1bn/- donated by Tanzania businessman Rostam Aziz was a fulfillment of Mr Aziz's promise he made before the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on April 8, 2020. Handing over the equipment, Mr Aziz asked other business people to support the government on the war against the pandemic. "This is what is being done by other businesspeople all over the world, including China and the United State of America, we cannot leave our government to fight  this war alone," he said. Medical Association of Tanzania (MAT) President, Dr Elisha Osati,  said the government and other stakeholders should keep on providing PPE to health workers who are at the frontline in the war. "The public should continue taking preventive measures, including hand washing, social distancing and wear masks when visiting populated areas including hospitals," he said.