FOR more than a decade many countries have been practicing a model of inclusive education which enables children who have traditionally been excluded to mix with other children in classrooms. Before the inclusive model was adopted in 1980s, children with disability had separate classrooms. However, that arrangement was correctly seen as another form of discrimination. It was also seen to go against the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which promotes, protects and ensures the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities and promotes respect for their inherent dignity. There have been noticeable achievements since the inclusive education model was adopted in different countries. However, several challenges still hamper the effectiveness of the programme, particularly children with disabilities in developing countries. Accessibility (school buildings may not be accessible to children with physical disabilities); and inadequate teacher training and support (teachers often lack the training and resources to teach children with disabilities and to adapt their methods to address their needs. Inflexible curriculum and materials (lack of books in formats appropriate for people with visual impairments); and lack of data (only 21 countries globally have living standard surveys that collect data on chronic illness and disability, are other challenges. Poor policies and plans (many countries do not have plans, targets or policies that include children with disabilities); and cultural barriers (cultural beliefs sometimes mean teachers; parents and other children have stigma or negative attitudes to people with disabilities leading to bullying, abuse and exclusion from school). But as the government, with support from development partners, struggles to address those issues, learning support for children with disabilities at home has been a challenge, as identified by ZANAB during a survey in some areas of the country. The children lack help such as doing their homework or extra studying while at home because their parents and people at home do not have the skills to help them study. This remains common in all homes with children with disabilities. Human Rights activists say that when children with disabilities get quality education, they are enabled, when they grow, to take up key positions in their communities, challenge stigmas and change negative attitudes about their abilities. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals explicitly include those with disabilities in some targets to be reached by 2030, such as: Equal access to education and vocational training; Building or upgrading education facilities to make them inclusive learning environments; and ‘Safe, accessible transport systems for all.’ In realizing this, ‘Zanzibar National Association for the Blind (ZANAB)’ carried out a survey to identify the number of blind children and albino with visual impairment so that they are enrolled in schools. Thirty six children including 19 with albinism were identified in both Unguja and Pemba towards the end of 2019. “The Children are now in school (before Coronavirus- Covid-19 disrupted the education calendar in all countries) and were happy to be in school thanks to the Swedish Association of the Visually Impaired (SRF) for supporting the programme,” said ZANAB programme coordinator, Adil Mohamed Ali. He said the ‘getting all vision impaired and children with albinism in school’ was followed by ‘how to use brail’ training to parents of those children so that they can help them solve their homework while at home. “We have offered short courses of how to use braille to 30 parents or adults from homes with blind children and albino with low vision, so that they help them study at least in some basic subjects (Kiswahili, English and Mathematics).” He said it is important that parents of children with blindness and vision impairment (VI) learn Braille so that they provide assistance in education to their children at home after school hours. Braille is a system of raised dots that represent letters, groups of letters, numbers, punctuation and words that enables blind and partially sighted people to read and write through touch. It was first invented in France in the early 1800s to help soldiers communicate at night and not long afterward, refined by Louis Braille who developed the system that is used around the world today. Experts say that Braille provides blind and partially sighted people access to a range of everyday reading materials. In developed countries Braille is used in materials including recreational and educational books, financial statements and contracts, and even recipes and restaurant menus. It also helps them to pursue hobbies with materials such as music scores, playing cards and board games. However, in Zanzibar learning Braille for parent with blind children remains most important now because it has the crucial advantage of teaching children with blindness at home including some spellings, grammar and punctuations. Ms Fatma Djaa Chesa, ZANAB National Chairperson  says learning using Braille among parents will play an added advantage to children with blindness and the children will feel being supported in education. “With parent assisting their children with disability, they will feel happy and be confident in reading and writing as the children progress through schools. If children bring home pieces of work they are proud of being helped,” Ms Chessa said. Ms Nuru Ahmed, a mother of a blind child said after Braille training “We are happy to have the training so that we can help our children at home.” The Minister of State- Second Vice President‘s Office Mr Mohamed Aboud Mohamed has been calling upon members of the public to show care to people with disabilities including children. “We need Zanzibar to be the best place for all including children with disabilities. After school hours is good for children to study and being helped by adults and parents. Learning sign language and Braille is good so that it becomes easier to communicate with deaf and blind children,” Mr Aboud says. According to the statistics data, Zanzibar has about 509 blind adults, and more than 150 children with blindness and Visual impairment, as the government through its department of people with disabilities continue gathering data. Globally, it is estimated that  93 and 150 million children worldwide live with disabilities. Like all children, children with disabilities have ambitions and dreams for their futures, they need quality education to develop their skills and realize their full potential. The World Health Organization and the World Bank estimate that one in three out-of-school children have a disability and that throughout Africa, less than ten per cent of children with a disability are in primary education, yet, children with disabilities are often overlooked in policymaking, limiting their access to education and their ability to participate in social, economic and political life. Worldwide, these children are among the most likely to be out of school. They also face persistent barriers to education stemming from discrimination, stigma and the routine failure of decision makers to incorporate disability in school services. 