HAVE no doubt about it, Tanzania is endowed.  And one of the areas not yet utilised is the country’s water bodies. Tanzania, with a coastline stretching approximately 1,424 kilometers, is considered potentially competitive in the region and the world. Should Tanzania and neighboring countries sharing the Indian Ocean resources work together and optimally utilise water resources, a lot can be achieved. However, for this to occur there is need for a close collaboration among many players, including governments, policy makers, private sector and scientists. A young and ambitious marine scientist, Nancy Iraba (25), says despite its significance, Indian Ocean is largely unexplored, and it is craving for more scientists to unlock its potential in different disciplines. In Tanzania alone, the Ocean has directly employed about 200,000 people in fisheries sector, and about four Million people indirectly benefit from the sub-sector. However, the increasing human population threatens the food and employment security. Nancy is dedicated to study organisms that live at the bottom of the ocean floor and their interaction; She is a “benthic Ecologist”. Under the sponsorship of the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), she is currently focusing on studying Octopus cyanea in captivity for her Master’s program at the University of Dar es Salaam. Apart from that, she is also an expert in benthic organisms in freshwater ecosystems, particularly in rivers. Her career deals into tapping and unleashing potentials of the blue economy in order to leverage and sustain the ocean based industries such as fisheries, aquaculture, marine biotechnology, coastal tourism, oil and gas, marine transport, biodiversity and others. Experts define blue economy as a means to sustainably use marine resources for economic growth. She is also concerned about conservation of the coastal and marine environment from unsustainable human practices, including addressing the most urgent issues of our oceans today, like ocean acidification, climate change, pollution and overfishing through conducting of research that informs policies, helps in management strategies and induce action. “The ocean is the next frontier for researches and innovation, and therefore marine scientists across different disciplines should work to unlock the ocean’s unexplored potentials,” Nancy explains. The Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission under UNESCO have declared an Ocean Decade starting from 2021-2030 of intensive ocean exploration and discovery through research and collaboration. This, according to Nancy, is because apart from oceans being threatened, there is also a lot underwater that is not known, and it is upon marine scientists to collaborate and form partnerships that would develop new technologies that will transform how the ocean is viewed. “Some of the medicinal compounds are found in the ocean, others are currently being studied in the laboratory via organisms such as sponges, while others are yet to be discovered…there is a lot in the ocean we do not know,” Nancy explains. The scientist wants to re-define marine sciences because the ocean is more than fish. She is dedicated to make sure that communities appreciate the field for its potential that it has brought and it will bring in the near future as scientists continue to further unlock its economies. “I want us all to appreciate the beauty of life underwater and the benefits it gives us, and lastly, I want to see more girls taking the lead in marine science career,” she notes. Nancy wishes to see more training and capacity building especially to young girls for them to take a lead in the field of marine science, and more funding to national programs prioritising and promoting Ocean Sciences Literacy in Tanzania. She would also like to see more investments in conducting of basic research to understand further the most pressing issues facing oceans today, and collaborative research engines across countries and scientific researches that inform actions and environmental policies. She is of the opinion that creating different platforms for senior marine scientists and current researches seeking to share their scientific results with the public is the best way to develop marine science development in Tanzania. Last year, Nancy was awarded an upcoming woman in STEM for her contribution in marine sciences by the Next Einstein Forum, which is the largest African scientists gathering in promoting science and technology in African countries. In 2018, she won Quarry life awards, the second prize in the research category stream, given by Tanzania Portland Cement Company (TPCC) for conducting research that facilitated ecological knowledge relationships of birds, aquatic pits and benthic relationships between rehabilitated and zones which are not rehabilitated. In 2017, she was awarded “Hidden-eco heroine Award" by the Republic of Korea, for working with the youth in promoting ocean literacy and other aquatic resources at large, through her own initiative named ‘Aquatic resources education program’. Her parents, especially father, have always encouraged all their children to go to school, and that education was a family priority. “We wanted to make him proud by ensuring we stay in school and achieve the best out of the education system,” she says. She was an average student when it came to mathematics, and although she loved all subjects, biology has always been her favorite. Apart from her father, she has a couple of female scientists at home and away who inspire her to do better, and keep showing her that it is possible to achieve big things. The most inspirational icon is Dr Lulu Tunu Kaaya from the Department of Aquatic Sciences and Fisheries (UDSM) at the University of Dar es Salaam, who nurtured her into loving the world of benthic ecology much deeper. “I owe my ongoing successful academic journey to her,” she says. She also admires Zoleka Filander (a benthic offshore scientist from South Africa) who apart from all her scientific career achievements, is doing more than scientific work to show the world what the field is all about and its advantages to humanity. “I really find that admirable,” Nancy says. Despite the struggles and challenges along the way; She has never regretted her decision to become a marine scientist. In 2017 and 2018 simultaneously, she got an opportunity to be onboard a South African research cruise expedition that brought together different marine scientists across Africa, where they explored the ocean and learnt different aspects from sample collection, operating tools and data analysis in Tanzanian, Mozambique, Comoro and South African waters. This sparked her love towards marine environment, benthic ecology and life below water, as she worked as part of the benthic oceanography team. Apart from academics, she is also the co-founder of an NGO named Aqua-Farms Organisation that is dedicated towards conserving and protecting coastal and marine environments in Tanzania.  As a science communication officer at the organisation, she initiates programs to promote ocean literacy in Tanzania. Nancy who believes that quality education is the sole pillar to girl’s empowerment was born on 12th August 1994, in Dar-es-Salaam.  Her father was a civil servant with the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training (Now retired) and her mother  a businesswoman. She is concerned that most of the approaches to empower a girl child targets urban areas while few programs reach those in rural areas. She therefore calls upon established and upcoming women scientists who have faced odds in reaching the epitome of their scientific career to give back to the community by reaching to those in rural areas and show them that it can be done. She urges parents and teachers to inspire students to engage confidently in science subjects to become prominent scientists in the future. “Girls should look deeper into the science field, and not limit themselves in few scientific careers we know, science world is limitless, and it is craving for you,” she notes. Nancy is personally trying her best to encourage young girls into STEM career, and she does this through her own initiative called “Aquatic Resources Education Program” focusing on young girls taking science subjects in secondary schools. The young scientist’s message to young people is to be the change they want to see in their communities and in the world. “We have immense potential and creativity to turn around the world of uncertainty and imbalances into a world of hope that would favor the future generation,” she says. She believes that optimism, being a positive dreamer and in love with the world of possibilities are some of the traits that have made her become who she is today. For Nancy, failure only strengthens a person to be better.   