Like no time in the modern history, the world is facing a serious challenge from what is called Coronavirus disease or Covid-19. The disease attacked the world few months after Ebola virus disease which was reported in few parts of central and western Africa. The two brought  fear and anxiety among dwellers of this planet on another hand there are many theories about the origins of these deadly disease but to get a clear picture let us get a little knowledge, virus is a submicroscopic infectious. It is an agent that replicates only inside the living cells of an organism, it is very dangerous because scientists say viruses can infect all types of life forms, at the same time about 5,000 virus species have been described in detail. Scientists put more emphasize by saying viruses are found wherever there is life and have probably existed since living cells first evolved. The origin of viruses is unclear because they do not form fossils, so molecular techniques are used to investigate how they arose, in addition, viral genetic material occasionally integrates into the germ line of the host organisms, by which they can be passed on vertically to the offspring of the host for many generations. This provides an invaluable source of information for paleovirologists to trace back ancient viruses that have existed up to millions of years ago. On the other hand, there are three main hypotheses that aim to explain the origins of viruses and of the millions of types of viruses in the environment and they are found in almost every ecosystem on earth including the savannah where different species of mammals thrive. While this is happening in the world, on their side some scientists and environmentalists blame the outbreak of different disease such as Ebola, Covid-19 and others like them on poaching, this is an illegal hunting or capturing of wild animals, usually associated with land use rights, it was once performed by impoverished  peasants for subsistence purposes and a supplement for meager diets, it was set against the hunting privileges of nobility and territorial rulers, but since the 1980s, the term "poaching" has also been used to refer to the illegal harvesting of wild   plant species, in agricultural terms, the term 'poaching' is also applied to the loss of soils or grass by the damaging action of feet of livestock which can affect availability of productive land, water pollution through increased runoff and welfare issues for cattle. Poaching allow body parts of many animals, such as pangolin, elephant, lion, leopard, crocodile, tigers and rhinoceroses to be harvested in cruel way, this happen because some are believed to have certain positive effects on the human body, including increasing vitality and curing cancer and other diseases. In different parts of the world these parts are sold in areas where these beliefs are practiced mostly Far and East, Europe, Americas and Africa. In all these parts some herbalists often incorporate ingredients from parts of plants, the leaf, stem, flower, root and ingredients from animals and minerals. The use of parts of endangered species such as lions,  rhinoceros horns, tiger, leopard who are killed for fat, bones and claws has created controversy as they are exported in a black market of poachers. This happens because it is believed big cats body parts are so prevalent across different parts of the world where laws protecting even critically endangered species. Elephants are mammals and the largest existing land animals, three species are currently recognised the African bush elephant, the African forest elephant, and the Asian elephant, these are the only surviving family of the order Proboscidea while extinct members include the mastodons. African elephants have larger ears and concave backs, whereas Asian elephants have smaller ears, and convex or level backs. Distinctive features of all elephants include a long trunk, tusks, large ear flaps, massive legs, and tough but sensitive skin. The trunk, also called a proboscis, is used for breathing, bringing food and water to the mouth, and grasping objects. Tusks, which are derived from the incisor teeth, serve both as weapons and as tools for moving objects and digging. The large ear flaps assist in maintaining a constant body temperature as well as in communication. The poaching of elephants for their ivory, meat and hides has been one of the major threats to their existence. Historically, numerous cultures made ornaments and other works of art from elephant ivory, and its use rivalled that of gold, the ivory trade contributed to the African elephant population decline in the late 20th century. This prompted international bans on ivory imports, starting with the United States in June 1989, and followed by bans in other North American countries, western European countries, and Japan. The lion is a species in the family felidae, it is a muscular, deep-chested cat with a short, rounded head, a reduced neck and round ears, and a hairy tuft at the end of its tail. It is sexually dimorphic; adult male lions have a prominent mane, which is the most recognisable feature of the species. Lions live in a pride consisting of a few adult males, related females and cubs, groups of female lions usually hunt together, preying mostly on large ungulates. The lion is an apex and keystone predator, although some lions scavenge when opportunities occur, and have been known to hunt humans, although the species typically does not. Typically, the lion inhabits grasslands and savannahs, but is absent in dense forests. It is usually more diurnal than other big cats, but when persecuted it adapts to being active at night and at twilight. In the Pleistocene, the lion ranged throughout Eurasia, Africa and North America, but today it has been reduced to fragmented populations in Sub-Saharan Africa and one critically endangered population in western India. It has been listed as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List since 1996 because populations in African countries have declined by about 43 per cent since the early 1990s. Lions are threatened by pre-emptive killing or in retaliation for preying on livestock. Prey base depletion, loss and conversion of habitat have led to a number of subpopulations becoming small and isolated, trophy hunting has contributed to population declines in different parts of Africa and Asia where bones and body parts lions were exported from and to different parts of the world. Pangolins, or scaly anteaters are another victims of poaching, these are mammals found in three genera which comprises the four species found in Asia and other sub species are living in sub-Saharan Africa. Pangolins have large, protective keratin scales covering their skin, they are the only known mammals with this feature. They live in hollow trees or burrows, depending on the species, pangolins are nocturnal and their diet consists of mainly ants and termites, which they capture using their long tongues. They tend to be solitary animals, meeting only to mate and produce a litter of one to three offspring, which they raise for about two years. Pangolins are threatened by poaching for their meat and scales, which are used in traditional medicines for a variety of ailments including excessive anxiety and hysterical crying in children, women thought to be possessed by devils and heavy deforestation of their natural habitats. Poaching on pangolins have been blamed for the outbreak of Covid-19 infections, this is because Nucleic acid sequences of viruses taken from pangolins had initially been found to be a 99 per cent match with SARS coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus which causes Covid-19, and responsible for the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic. The working theory of researchers in different laboratories show that SARS-CoV-2 had originated in bats and, prior to infecting humans, was circulating among pangolins. The illicit international trade of pangolins for use in traditional medicines was suggested as a vector for human transmission. Researchers recently have implicated the pangolins as intermediate hosts in the ongoing coronavirus pandemic as the discovery of multiple lineages of pangolin coronavirus and their similarity to SARS-CoV-2 suggests that pangolins are hosts for novel coronaviruses, however, further study was less conclusive on pangolins as the definitive source of (SARS-CoV-2), namely being the bridge that the virus used to jump from bats to humans, after it emerged that the 99 per cent match did not actually refer to the entire genome. A whole-genome comparison found that the pangolin and human viruses share only 90.3 per cent of their RNA. Ecologists worried that the early speculation about pangolins being the source may have led to mass slaughters, endangering the animals further, which was similar to what happened to civets during the SARS outbreak. Not only that, the detrimental effects of poaching can include defaunation of forests predators, herbivores and fruit-eating vertebrates cannot recover as fast as they are removed from a forest; as their populations decline, the pattern of   seed predation and dispersal is altered; tree species with large seeds progressively dominate a forest, while small-seeded plant species become   locally extinct. Reduction of animal populations in the wild and possible extinction, the effective size of protected areas is reduced as poachers use the edges of these areas as open-access resources, wildlife tourism destinations face a negative publicity; those holding a permit for wildlife-based land uses, tourism-based tour and lodging operators lose income, employment opportunities are reduced, emergence of zoonotic diseases caused by transmission of highly variable retrovirus chains, outbreaks of the Ebola virus in the Congo Basin and in Gabon in the 1990s have been associated with the butchering of apes and consumption of their meat. The outbreak of SARS in Far East is attributed to contact with and consumption of meat from wild animals by bushmeat hunters in Central Africa infected with the human T-lymphotropic virus were closely exposed to wild  primates. Results of research on wild central chimpanzees in west Africa indicate that they are naturally infected with the simian foamy virus and constitute a reservoir of HIV-1, a precursor of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in  humans.. Protect yourself against Covid-19, stop poaching and stay alive!