ON Sunday, this paper carried a story on its sports pages that was based on an interview in which one of its staff writers had had with Taifa Stars player currently plying his ware in Morocco, Simon Msuva. In the interview, Msuva said he had reached where he is today; Playing professional soccer in one of the most advanced soccer nations in Africa, Morocco, because he has had two things; Discipline and determination. The question of ‘one of the most advanced soccer nations in Africa’ was not in the interview, but my own words. I have deliberately inserted the words because that is the truth. And if you don’t believe that Morocco is one of the most advanced soccer nations in Africa, here are the facts; One, they represented the continent in the last Fifa World Cup in Russia, and two, the team was one of the best performing African teams in that global soccer tournament. But more importantly, it has provided semifinalists in the continent’s elite soccer club tournament, the Champions League. Others come from Egypt and Tunisia. And the fact that Simon Msuva is presently playing in one of other best four soccer nations in the continent speaks volumes about Msuva’s present soccer form. For my readers who have every week gone through my sports columns, would agree with me that Msuva’s two words, discipline and determination, are not new to them. They have read in my columns, times and again, week in, week out and the reason for my continued use of the two words is very simple, you cannot as a soccer player reach the level Msuva and Mbwana Samatta have reached if you don’t own and practice the two words. Simply put and as rightly noted by the player on Sunday, if a Tanzanian player would like to get where Msuva and Samatta are, then such a player has no alternative but to embrace, and in practice, the two words. And the question we need to ask ourselves is; Do are our present crop of players in the premier league epitomize discipline and determination? My answer is no, they don’t; Otherwise they would not have been where they are! Where are they? They are very far down there and most of them have failed their teams. Had they not failed their teams, then clubs like Simba and Young Africans would have still been taking part in the continental clubs soccer tournaments. But the fact that both clubs are out of the continental soccer clubs tournaments means that the level of performance of almost all the players is wanting, and is wanting because most of them lack discipline and determination. Lack of discipline and determination has continued to keep them at home while others are travelling out of the country, but in a trickle, to play professional soccer in more advanced soccer nations. Agreed, the best path to the present, high paced professional soccer career abroad is through soccer academy, but young players who have not had the opportunity of going through such a path can still make it if they are disciplined and determined in the game. Being disciplined and determined in the game is being in a position of not only listening attentively to one’s coach, say, in Simba, Young Africans or any league team in the country; But also going an extra mile in one’s daily training in order to attain more than what your coach has told you to do. We have for years heard of players like David Beckham and Christian Ronaldo putting up some of the best performances year in, year out, almost effortlessly. Yet when you look at the way the two players did, during their different times of playing career, you would discover that their colleagues did not do what they did, going an extra mile in their daily training. Beckham has already retired. But during his playing days, he used to stay behind at Old Trafford and would train to shoot for over two hours when his colleagues were already at home. Beckham paid ball boys who would set the dead balls for him anywhere he wanted on the pitch and practice his shooting. The ball boys picked the balls and returned to him for more shooting practice. It was through such shooting practice that would make David Beckham the best free kick taker in the world. Indeed, no matter how good a goalkeeper was, he would succumb to Beckham’s dead ball shots. The same thing could be said about Cristiano Ronaldo who is still playing in his thirties! Ronaldo starts training on his bed, as soon as he wakes up in the morning and continues with the regime for hours. That is why he produces the kind of performance he has been producing throughout his present football career. Both players have one thing in common, discipline and determination. And that’s why they have hardly been sent off for fouls. Beckham was hit by a shoe by his angry manager, Sir Alex Ferguson during training. But he never reacted, angrily at his manager, as some players would have done! Even when his wife, Victoria told him to leave the club, he did not do it with a huff. That is how disciplined the former English international and skipper was. In short, both players were and are where they are today because they were highly disciplined and determined in whatever they did on the football pitch. For quite a while now, I have been writing on my sports columns the importance of discipline and determination for any soccer player who wants to go places, Msuva has now spoken after getting where every disciplined and determined player is supposed to be.