THE fight against Covid-19 has continued to receive financial and material support after the government yesterday received donations worth 14.9bn/-. The latest donations will help equip healthcare workers in their fight against the respiratory disease. Receiving the donations in Dar es Salaam, the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu said the contribution would be utilised to purchase additional personal protection equipment (PPE) and medical devices for the care of patients with Covid-19. Of the amount received yesterday, the Global Fund donated 14bn/-, Airtel Tanzania 700m/- and Rotary Club Tanzania 250m/-. The minister also received 1,250 litres of hand sanitisers which are meant to galvanise efforts to fight the novel coronavirus. "The donations received today will be channelled to purchase PPE for the frontline health workers and caregivers, they are our priority in this fight. It is crucial for them to continue to comply with guidelines for infectious disease," Ms Mwalimu said. She added, "Let me use this opportunity to thank the healthcare workers who have been working day and night in providing services to people infected with Covid-19 and the suspects," The minister said the involvement of each stakeholder in the fight against Coronavirus infection was important and that the support provided by the companies was significant in the Covid-19 fight. Ms Mwalimu expressed gratitude to the donors on behalf of President John Magufuli and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. Airtel Tanzania, Board Chairman, Mr Gabriel Malata said Airtel recognised the government's efforts in combating the Coronavirus. "After our evaluation, we realised that our company cannot keep on working without people using our services as they are the capital of the Company," said Mr Gabriel. Serengeti Breweries Limited, Director of Corporate Relations,  Mr John Wanyancha said that the company had donated 1,250 litres of hand sanitisers worth 15m/-  to support the fight. Rotary Club Tanzania,  Chairperson, Ms Agnes Batenga said the 183m/-  were meant to provide PPE and enhance clean water supplies at Covid-19 special care centres namely; Amana, Mawenzi and Mount Meru Hospitals and Zanzibar. She further said 67m/- will be used to implement a project to contain the pandemic in the country through Rotary Clubs.