TANZANIA Amateur Netball Association (CHANETA) has been forced to revise their 2020 calendar of events and now plan to resume activities from July this year if all goes well. CHANETA Secretary General Judith Ilunda a told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that her association has been forced to stop all local and international events due to Coronavirus pandemic. She said they will only resume activities when the situation changes for the better. Ilunda said that the plan is to resume the events from early July but insisted that it will only depend if the current crisis of Coronavirus is contained. “As we all know Covid-19 crisis has affected the entire world including Tanzania, we had to revise our 2020 calendar of events, but we will start again hopefully in July, once the situation is normalised and also in according to government directives,” she said. According to Ilunda, National First Division League will be the first event to be staged from July 1 to 14th this year in Tanga, if the pandemic clears. She said that 18 teams are lined up for the tournament, naming them as JKT Mbweni, Jeshi Stars, Arusha City, Tamisemi Dodoma, Dodoma City, Coca Cola Kwanza, Eagles Queens and Smart Queens. Other teams are Tanga City, JKT Makutupora, Mgulani JKT, Nyika of Coast Regional, Police Kigoma, Reli Morogoro, Zimamoto Dar, Police Tanga, Mabibo Queens and Uhamiaji Tanzania. Ilunda said that the National Second Division League will follow from August 3 to 10th this year in Mara Region. She said that teams that dropped from First Division League will battle it out for the next year’s top division places. The teams include Bandari Dar, Police Morogoro, Police Arusha, Sedco Mwanza, Magereza Morogoro, Magereza Lindi, Chemchem Manyara and Arusha Queens. Meanwhile, Ilunda has insisted for players and public in general to take all important measures and precautions to prevent themselves from Coronavirus, as it is dangerous and has taken the lives of many people around the world. “My advice is that let us all follow guidelines provided by heath experts and the government. We should stay at home, keep social distancing, wear masks and also continue to wash our hands with soap and running water as well as frequent use sanitisers,” she said.