THE government has asked parents and guardian with girls aged 14 years to ensure that they take them to medical facilities to receive Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) vaccine. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu made the remark in Parliament on Wednesday, adding that girls, who have not completed the vaccination schedule, should also come to wind up. She said that the government was giving assurance to all people that vaccination services were available at all health facilities for free. “People should continue with these services at any time, because vaccination is the right of every child in this country,’’ added the Minister. That was the minister’s response to a question by Mwantumu Dau Haji (Special Seats-CCM), who wanted to know the progress on HPV vaccine that was recently introduced by the government in the country. According to the minister, the government introduced the HPV vaccine in April 2018 for girls aged nine to 14 years, and that during the period, about 643,383 girls aged 14, who were targeted had received the vaccine on time, and the following year, 685,580 girls were targeted. “In 2018, we introduced the vaccine and about 383,683 received the service during the first dose and that is an equivalence of 60 percent of the set target, which was 643,838 and during the second dose about 128,021 were reached out that is equal to 33 percent of the set target,’’ she pointed out Last year, the minister said, about 533,615 girls (78 percent) received the vaccine during the first dose and that on the second dose about 334,014 equal to 63 percent were reached. The government introduced the HPV vaccine as part of the routine immunization programme targeting girls aged 14 to protect them against cervical cancer. Statistics show that Tanzania is among the African countries with the highest cases of cervical cancer with about 50,000 women contracting the disease annually. Statistics from Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI), show that cervical cancer accounts for 36 per cent of all cancer patients in the country, followed by breast cancer (12.9 percent), cancer of the oesophagus (9.8 per cent) and Kaposis Sarcoma (9.3 percent). Cervical cancer has multiple risk factors such as early marriage, multiple sexual partners, multi-parity and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/Aids infection, tobacco use, vitamins deficiency and HPV infection.