IT is Easter Day and Christians in Tanzania and across the world celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ after his crucifixion at Golgotha (Calvary) in Jerusalem over 2000 years ago. For Christians, the death and resurrection of Christ brings “new hope to humanity” in the sense that sin and death have been overcome by the new and everlasting life. The event reminds Christians their own renewed faith and living in the hope of being raised up. Sharing in their joy today, we wish all Tanzanian Christians and others in the world ‘Happy Easter’. For us, we want to link the Easter festive with the hope of increasing effective initiatives and resolutions to the fight against the coronavirus pandemic which continues plaguing the world in different ways. They include increasing socioeconomic adverse effects such as the prevalence of unemployment, food insecurity, losses of human lives and the fear associated death and social isolation especially in those countries which are most hit and have resorted to a lockdown. Perhaps the Covid-19 outbreak is linked to climate change effects – that is - it is the way nature responds to climate change effects. Pope Francis put it this way in his recent remarks on the Covid-19 pandemic. He likened it with ‘recent fires and floods as one of the nature’s responses to the world’s ambivalence to climate change’. He said: “There is an expression in Spanish: ‘God always forgives, we forgive sometimes, but nature never forgives.’’’ To cut it short, the humanity’s contribution to environmental destruction and ultimately to climate change results in destructive phenomena whose effects we may not have the immediate capacity and solution to mitigate effectively. Yes, the coronavirus pandemic is still plaguing the world and by 11:20 GMT yesterday, according to worldometers.info, the number of coronavirus cases had hit 1,714,517 cases, 103,790 deaths and 388,592 patients had recovered. In Tanzania, there are 32 coronavirus cases, 3 patients have died, 5 patients have recovered and 24 active cases. President John Magufuli, while participating in a Good Friday prayer service in Chato, appealed to believers to continue praying to God so that he may help us fight effectively the deadly disease, saying he believed God won’t leave us alone. He also urged Tanzanians to continue working hard during this challenging time. Minister for Health, Ummy Mwalimu has continued updating Tanzanians on the disease prevalence and together with other government officials and health experts have also continued cautioning Tanzanians to take preventive measures against Covid-19 in compliance with World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines. So, let us keep the fire of fighting against coronavirus burning, show solidarity with the victims and with the families who have lost their loved ones across the world and pray so that the Almighty God may show us the way to find the lasting solution to it.