PERMIT me to address you, my fellow Tanzanian (even if you are my quarter-enemy), plus a non-Tanzanian who happens to be an African. In respect of the latter, you are also my brother or sister, because the sons and daughters of the African continent are, sentimentally speaking, one. Or, putting it ‘Kiswahiliwise’, Kitu Kimoja (One thing). Tanzanians obviously know that in part of Tanzania’s national anthem, which, as obviously as your name is yours and no-one else’s, is primarily in the blessed Kiswahili language (as if other languages aren’t), we request God to bless Africa. Since somewhere along the line something called the global village emerged, a super patriotic global villager might propose that we revise the wording in the anthem by chipping in a request to God to bless the global village; maybe ‘Mungu kibariki Kijiji Dunia’ . Let me tell you a halftruth; half-lie (forgive me); I love the Kiswahili language like nobody’s business but my own business. The problem is that periodically, creative people coin fanciful Kiswahili words and expressions that end up as part of the vocabulary. “Utajiju” (it is up to you”) is one example. Some years ago, so the story goes (to where?) someone pronounced the word, as an accidentally circumcised version of “utajijua” (a mild form of “to hell with you”) to someone with whom he had picked a quarrel at Kigoma Railway Station. The few people within earshot circulated it and it spread like wildfire within a Dar es Salaam-bound passenger train, and, bit by bit, it became a famous phrase countrywide. Whoever would dare report the inventor of “utajiju” to the police, over the presumed offence of committing ‘Kiswahili-slaughter” as opposed to manslaughter, something would be deemed to be seriously wrong with his or her upstairs. For languages, like human beings, grow with the passage of time. The inventor of the expression “Kuboreka” doesn’t deserve a prize, even at the level of Wazo Hill in Dar being named after him, and doing so after Kilimanjaro mountain would amount to sheer “uzushi” (high-scale rumour mongering). For “Kuboreka” is sourced from “boredom”; the word thus representing the state of being bored. “Unaniboa” means “you are boring me”. Someone who is less friendly would tell you “unaniboa kichizi” (You are boring me immensely). What may be lightly characterized as ‘crude Englishlising’ Kiswahili may furthermore be drawn from a phone conversation in which Friend Number One stresses to Friend Number Two, with whom they have arranged to meet somewhere to teach some beers unforgettable lessons, to “kipu taimu” (keep time). As to where he was going, another person tells his friend that ‘naelekea homu’. You would call this a Kiswahili- English hybrid–the first word meaning I am going, and the second one meaning home. Plus, a child tells his mother that ‘ticha’ had warned pupils in her class that he would cane those who wouldn’t complete their ‘homuwaka’ (homework). Furthermore, a beautiful young lady, after assessing a young man who had made advances at her, does something known in Kiswahili as “kusonya’, but the English version of which I don’t know, and on which, please, enlighten me. She then categorically informs him that “huna ishu” (you have no issue; whatever that means), and that he is not her ‘saizi’ (size). This is a crude way of informing him (poor creature), that he is under-qualified to befriend her! The world being a theatre, though, and we, human beings, being unpredictable creatures, I wouldn’t be surprised, as I wouldn’t be, if a chimpanzee trained by a sober rather than a drunken instructor, were to drive a truck, if the man and woman were to subsequently marry and live happily till the kingdom comes. “Sina hili wala lile” crudely translates as “ I don’t have this or that”, but actually represents a state of someone being in a somewhat confused state. I was in that state several years ago, when I couldn’t make up my mind whether to become a definitive Yanga or Simba fan. For the sake of doing my heart and soul (I can’t definitively tell the difference), justice, I decided to become Yanga-Simba-less, and become a Taifa Stars supporter (not fan). I recently found myself in a situation known as “sina hili wala lile” (being idle and not knowing what to do). I decided to take a stroll to kill boredom happily, since I wouldn’t be charged with murder. I was as excited as was Judas Iscariot Mlimamfupi, a friendly fellow “mzee”, when we met after a long time. But in the confusion arising from rushing to each other and to administer the “kick-shake” as opposed to a handshake, as a protection against a disease I am scared of mentioning, we fell, banged our heads on the hard ground and are now in hospital. Pray for us. Amen ! wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633