DODOMA City Council has expressed a need for members of the public to heed safety measures to contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19). The City Council had embarked on a programme to raise public awareness on Covid-19 especially in high density areas. Coordinator of Community Health Marry Kongola said the programme, which is geared towards encouraging people to heed health measures to control the pandemic spread, was offered at markets and houses of worship. “A response to this special programme from city residents and religious leaders is positive. The programme targets densely populated areas to encourage people keep and observe social distancing and use protective measures like regular handwashing with soap and use of facemasks,” the community health coordinator said. Ms Kongola also urged local government leaders to ensure the people complied with directives given by the government on how to control coronavirus and encourage people to take precautions against the pandemic. Speaking on behalf of Dodoma Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Faraja Eliamuya, she said authorities in Dodoma Region had deployed health experts to monitor any person with coronavirus symptoms. “Any person with coronavirus symptoms will be taken to centres earmarked for the provision of medication,” he said. Dr Eliamuya said the transmission of Covid-19 had been critical across the world, pointing out that some countries across the world had announced lockdowns to contain the spread of the pandemic. Last Friday, Health Minister Ummy Mwalimu reported that 37 patients had recovered from Covid-19 and had, therefore, been discharged from various hospitals. Ms Mwalimu said they no longer exhibited symptoms of the coronavirus such as a high fever, tiredness and a dry cough. She said 37 were among 108 people who had earlier tested positive for the virus. “These 108 patients do not have any symptoms. The rest are still hospitalised, awaiting final tests as required by treatment procedures before they are allowed to go home and rejoin their families,” she said. Ms Mwalimu advised the discharged patients to adhere to instructions given by doctors to avoid a second infection because research showed a recovered patient could be re-infected. 