The East African Court of Justice (EACJ) will today conduct a run test as it prepares to start hearing cases online. Housed inside EAC Secretariat’s building here, the court recently held an extraordinary Plenary for Judges and resolved to roll out online hearings, delivery of Rulings and Judgments from next month. “Test runs are being done from tomorrow (today) after which a course list will be drawn,” revealed Mr Yufnalis Okubo, EACJ Registrar in an email exchange with this paper yesterday. The online hearings will link all the lawyers, judges and court staff where proceedings will be conducted virtually using video conference facility as if it’s in an open Court, according to Mr Okubo. At least five new cases have been filed at the EACJ since the region reported its first Covid-19 case last month. During the recent plenary session held in Arusha, EACJ President Dr Emmanuel Ugirashebuja commended fellow Judges for having accepted to go digital as a gateway for EACJ becoming an e-court. The Court further urged lawyers and litigants to file cases and serve documents online pursuant to the new East African Court of Justice Rules of Procedure 2019. The plenary meeting sought to discuss EACJ’s mode of working during the COVID-19 pandemic, so as not to close the doors of justice to the residents of the Community after it had done so last month. The Court is one of the organs of the East African Community (EAC) established under Article 9 of the Treaty for the Establishment of the East African Community. Established in November 2001, the Court’s major responsibility is to ensure the adherence to law in the interpretation and application of and compliance with the EAC Treaty. The Treaty established Arusha as the temporary seat of the Court since 2001 until such a time when its functions would be operational. It is proposed that all judges of the court serve on a permanent basis as a means of strengthening the institution. Currently, only the President and Registrar are based at the court with all other judges serving only on a needs basis.