THE government and the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) have established an online link to help them collect and process complaints and share responses from either side in order to easy the progress of investment and improve business environment in the country. The link which is set to become operational in 2020/21 fiscal year was unveiled by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa in his budget speech for the year 2020/21 he presented here last week. He told MPs that Tanzania’s efforts towards building a modern economy were not in vain. Tanzania had done extremely well in improving the investment environment and climate for doing business, a fact appreciated by the World Bank, the Prime Minister told the national assembly to the thumbing of MPs and to the smiles and nodding of members of the public in the public gallery. “I have pleasure to this august house that the investment climate and the environment for doing business have improved steadily in our country. This is evident in the WB’s 2020 report. In that report Tanzania is put in the 141st position, up from the 144th position. I believe the online link we have established will raise to even a higher level of efficiency in promoting investment and doing business in our country,” the PM said. The PM called on all public institutions to support the business community in all possible ways in order to raise the level of investment and improve conditions for doing business and commended regions for what he described as great efforts being done by regional leaders in exposing investment opportunities. He told the house that 854, 821 hectares had been set aside countrywide for investment adding that ‘Investment Guidelines’ had been unveiled in  Ruvuma, Songwe, Coast, Lindi, Mtwara, Kagera, Geita, Kilimanjaro, Simiyu, Manyara, Dodoma, Mwanza, Kigoma and Morogoro. The TPSF is the umbrella organisation of the private sector and has 14 clusters to facilitate representation in the apex body. The clusters are agriculture, industries, tourism, financial institutions, minerals, services, women entrepreneurs, Zanzibar traders, construction and engineering, oil and gas, transportation, companies, trade and vending.