THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam has confiscated into government properties 17 containers with logs valued at 452.7m/-and ordered the Director with Salsabil Investment Limited, Abdulrahman Omary, to pay 207m/-compensation to the government. Principal Resident Magistrate, Thomas Simba gave such orders after convicting the 55 years-old businessman on his own plea of guilty to the charge of illegal transportation of the consignment. He also sentenced the accused to either pay 1m/-fine or go to jail for two years in default of paying the fine. The businessman managed to pay the amount and was freed from remand prison. Before his conviction, the businessman was facing a total of 15 economic charges. However, the accused person later decided to enter into a plea bargaining agreement with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) with a view of pleading guilty to the charge as preferred by the latter and subsequent ending of the criminal trial. The DPP accepted the request by the accused person and decided to drop the other 14 counts, under which he remained with only one count of illegal transportation of forestry products. Such new charge was subsequently presented in court by Senior State Attorneys Ladislaus Komanya and Materus Marandu on behalf of the DPP. After being read over and explained to them, the accused person entered a “plea of guilty.” The court, thereafter, moved to Ubungo Dry Port in Dar es Salaam to inspect and witness the seized logs in the containers. The prosecution tendered them as exhibits before proceeding to read over the memorandum of facts, of which the businessman also pleaded guilty. Magistrate Simba went on to convict the businessman of the charge on his own plea of guilty and sentenced him to pay the 207m/-compensation and, in addition, sentenced the accused to either pay 1m/-fine or go to jail for two years in default of paying the fine. Before being sentenced, the prosecution had asked the court to impose severe sentence against the convicts in accordance with the law and as per the plea bargaining agreement in order to deter them and any other person who would be tempted to commit similar offences. According to the new charge, it was alleged by the prosecution that the businessman committed the offence between January 1 and November 31, 2015 at NASACO area within Ilala District in Dar es Salaam. The prosecution told the court that the accused person was found in possession of the forestry products, African Rose Wood valued at 452,787,076/-without permit of forestry agent. The government banned the exportation of logs with a view of not only protecting the environment, but also to improve revenue collections from such forestry products as well as preventing the country from being turned into a desert.