IT is Union Day and Tanzanians and Zanzibaris recall an important event in the lives of the two countries, which happened 56 years ago. On April 26, 1964 Tanganyika and Zanzibar united to form the United Republic of Tanzania which has made the people of the two countries remain one people.
It is an example that can be emulated in Africa and across the world. If Tanzanians feel proud of anything, it is because of this Union which has brought them together to see one another as brothers and sisters. Together with the use of Kiswahili language, which is spoken by the majority of citizens in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Union has created political stability and brotherhood/sisterhood among Tanzanians. It has also created political and economic opportunities in various ways for the two countries and people.
An islander can go to the mainland to live, work or conduct any business and vice versa without any problem provided they abide by laws and regulations. The Articles of the Union were signed on April 22, 1964 by the Founding Fathers of the Union, Julius Nyerere and Abeid Amani Karume. President John Magufuli and President Mohamed Shein have maintained the principles of the Founding Fathers to make the United Republic of Tanzania remain politically stable and peaceful during their leadership as we mark 56 years of the Union today. We wish them good health so that they may continue discharging their duties as entrusted by their people to help develop the two countries and make all love one another. May God bless them so that they may continue pleasing him by serving their people as they should.
Even with the global coronavirus pandemic, President Magufuli and President Shein have tried their best to make Tanzanians understand that the deadly disease has no cure, but it can be prevented. Thus, they have on various occasions appealed to Tanzanians to take precautions against the disease, but work hard because without doing so we won’t maintain ourselves amidst the challenges created by the pandemic. Not only that, as we look forward to holding the general election later this year, it is upon us to choose capable leaders who will maintain the Union and make Tanzanians one people so that we continue living together in peace. Let each one of us maintain the political stability and peace as we have done in 56 years. We shouldn’t turn back, but let us keep the fire of Union burning throughout our lives.