A STOREKEEPER with Mega Beverages Limited, KVant manufacturer, yesterday was arraigned before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam accused  of stealing a stock of the popular hard liquor worth over 130m/-. The accused, Rashid Mhina, was slapped with tough bail conditions of depositing in court a cash bail of 51m/- or surrender a title deed of any immovable property certified at similar amount of money. Additionally, the magistrate ordered the accused person to secure two reliable sureties, who were each required to sign a bond of 26m/-. Furthermore, the accused person was barred from moving outside Dar es Salaam region without court permission. Mhina failed to meet the set bail conditions and was ordered to remain in custody until May 5, 2020, when the case comes up for preliminary hearing. The prosecution informed the court that investigations into the matter have been completed. During the preliminary hearing session, the prosecution is expected to produce more facts, showing how the accused person committed the offence. Prosecuting, State Attorney Kija Luzungana told the court that the accused committed the offence on diverse dates in 2019 at Togo area within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam. The court heard that, being an employee with Mega Bevarage Co. Limited, Dar es Salaam Depot as Store Keeper, Mhina stole 1,182 cartons of KVant with 750 milligrams, valued at 103,928,000/-, the property of his employer. According to the prosecution, such hard drinks came into possession of the accused person by virtue of his employment as storekeeper of the company, the producer of the popular spirit brand KVant. Mega Beverages Limited is the manufacturer of the well-known spirit, Kvant. They had the inclination of rebranding and repositioning their product back in the market. The company called ABC Bros on board was assigned the task of modelling and carrying out their relaunch campaign. They were also the main event managers for the spirit’s rebirth in Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Mwanza.