YOUNG Africans yesterday announced that next week, they will launch an official website, a magazine and YangaApp, to help the club go abreast with the demands of the current technological world. This was disclosed by the club's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli, who urged Yanga fans across the country to welcome the development, while alerting those who have been using the name of the club without their consent to stop the malpractice. “The magazine will contain more than 20 articles concerning the club and thereafter, we will launch a weekly newspaper, which will also contain various stories about the team. “At the moment, we are in the process to scout potential agents, who will be responsible to sell the magazine in various parts of the country as such, we expect good response from our supporters wherever they are,” Bumbuli said. He added YangaApp will be even beneficial for the reporters to get updated information of the club as they will be posting audio and video clips to be used by the media. “We are trying our level best to be as creative as we can and this is just a beginning. And the YangaApp, will have a special feature to be used for chatting, which will enable fans to easily engage with players,” he said. In another development, the team’s skipper Papy Tshishimbi said they are progressing well with individual training sessions, which were given to them following the suspension of the Mainland Premier League. “Every player was given the training programme and through the whatsapp group of the players, we are able to communicate with one another to know how each is implementing the sessions,” Tshishimbi said. Moreover, the captain narrated that every week, they change the training programmes as per recommendations from their fitness instructor so that they keep busy and avoid getting weight which he said can be dangerous to them. He then commented that there is a big difference between the training session under the supervision of a trainer and the one you do by your own. “When somebody is watching you training, you tend to work hard compared to when you are executing the training alone since it becomes easy to be lazy and give up for another day,” the Congolese box to box midfielder said. Yanga are third on the log 20 points behind Simba, who still top the 20- team table with 71 points after 28 matches. The Reds remain key favourites to lift the trophy three times in a row with the existing 17 point gap against second placed Azam FC, who have played the same number of 28 matches. On third slot are Young Africans who have pocketed 51 points from 27 games, while debutants Namungo FC are positioned fourth with 50 points after 28 outings. Coastal Union are placed fifth place on the table with 46 points after 28 encounters as the top flight league is still suspended to curb the massive spread of the Covid-19 until further notice.