ON 1st April 2020, Daily Newspaper, on its Africa’s features Page, conceded out a thought-provoking title ….Covid- 19 to heavily impact on FDIs, assessments hinted by Unctad. This fascinating news echoed on measures being taken by some banks in our region as they begin to reorganise themselves perhaps getting ready for what might come to them in on the subject of loan disbursement issued to businesses especially SMEs. Seeing through bigger picture the banks are starting to come into the coronavirus pandemic much stronger than what can conceivably only guessed the way bank went into the global 2008 financial crisis. Openly, after the crisis, regulators were sketch up plans to inhibit a repeat of the global financial crisis of 2008, regulators correctly hit upon the idea that banks should hold sizable buffers in terms of capital and liquidity that would see them endure through another dramatic downturn, should it happen. Within East Africa region, one strong commercial bank has given loan holiday for up to three month repayment break for SMEs to cushion them against the economic disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. But will loan holiday be sufficient to see bank through the most dramatic economic times at a time sales are dwindling. While Central Bank of Kenya, of late, directed SMEs in Kenya to touch base with their banks for assessment and restructuring of loans, grounded on their state of affairs, broadly, in times of economic distress many governments around the world turning to their banks and especially central banks to show the way. Unsubstantiated reports are begging to indicate that amid Covid- 19 emerging shocks, central banks, both in countries with robust economy, the like of UK, USA, China, India, South Africa etc. are slashing interest rates amongst other stringent measures aimed at making business going through this tough period. Giant airlines companies, logistic companies etc. similar to banks are re-strategizing their business model to remain relevant. Each player is doing something to unlock new solutions to help them survive businesses resourcefully. Since we all know that the world is about to change profoundly as a result of Covid-19, the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS 9), has announced an expected credit loss structure for the recognition of impairment of the expected credit loss structure under IFRS 9 and its effect on the governing of accounting provisions in the Basel capital framework. Such measures and many more to come, all are aimed at preparing to unknown long-term effects of Covid-19. As banks built up cushions and important measures, regulators are insisting that each bank should be subject to an annual stress test to see if banks would be able to endure effects caused by Covid-19. Currently, as Covid-19 send out shockwaves, chilling consequences will infects the global economy to the point of virtual stoppage that suggests apart from envisioned heavily impact on FDIs (see Daily news pg. 16, 1st April 2020) daily forecasts of GDP will deteriorate amongst many nations in the second quarter and third quarter will be getting worse by the day. Learning from IFRS 9, for example, in addition to what economists are assessing, how financial are re-counted, how businesses are completed, how banks manoeuvres credits, how interbank lending takes place and how loans are restructured will change and in my opinion this change will be overwhelmingly. While I am remorseful, to those enchanting somewhat the coronavirus outbreak multiplier affects easily, my deepest alarm and distress is that, undoubtedly coronavirus outbreak will renovate the way the economy and businesses have conventionally been run but also open up new opportunities. Meaning, while the world must start thinking around a new kind of Bretton Wood now, and not get mixed-up through, jumping to put it all back together with piercing coats and covers over the next few years, to policy makers, how they should react, and plan for the future within prevailing resources matters. How, then, should the Government or policy makers respond? In my opinion, the situation, in terms of how long certain stringent measures are likely to be in place, and what our government and other governments within east African region will do in response, is changing daily. As business undertakings and consumption arrays grapples to a halt under temporarily boarder closures, businesses slow-down and meeting protective gear supply distress, it is high time for central banks to rethink deeply on measures to help curb businesses community and banks because in my opinion this kind of uncertainty outlook has never been seen before. Central banks has to play a key leading role since finance in my view is the salvation of the economy and caring and sustaining it to make it active is of utmost significance should we as taxpayers want to avoid hearing of surprises that could bring banks especially commercial banks that has extended credit to businesses to their knees. Failure to act promptly with strategic measures to help businesses, levels of NPLs being reported in this 1st Q of 2020 could be a tip of an ice as true picture could reveal itself on Q2 and Q3 2020. In the same way, on the banking side, it isn’t time to relax credit appraisal processes as there is a room to present justifications that could be linked to Covid-19 effects, instead time to strengthening credit appraisal processes to minimize levels of NPLs. I might be a devil advocate pastor, but the problem I envisaging, is that the banks are less well placed to assist business in our environment now than they were back in 2008-09. Signs of direct hit that will affect businesses balance sheets brought about by coronavirus, which was not the case earlier are now tangible. Some analysts see banks performance growth falling in the second and third quarter when compared to first quarter of 2020 and more slow quarters will follow if the virus is not confined. In this environment, small businesses will be more vulnerable and banks no doubt will expect a rise in bad loans. Relatively, back in 2008-09 many banks especially in our region did not take a direct hit to their balance sheets as the unscrupulous assets that caused the financial crisis were mostly held by Western banks. On top of this, looking at previous balance sheets, banks in our region then, were in robust health, with lots of spare investment, allowing them to make new loans and help keep bank’s growth. Currently, amid Covid-19 outbreak and insecurity, banking profits will be under pressure and even though banks especially central banks in many countries are slicing interest rate as virus spread, huge liquidity injections into the financial system as well as interest rate slashes, in my opinion, still it is unclear as to whether this strategy will be effective and for how long. Investor’s prospects much as banks will be vigilant up until the situation becomes clearer and none of us, looking at longer- term implications for banks everywhere, no one know how long it might take. To-date, there is no undisclosed, stock prices have weakened and credit market state of affairs have tighten-up in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Although firms are reacting to such outcomes by working out their liquidity insurance and drawing down their credit lines, more is needed to survive with effects. As central banks continues to react with substantial rate cuts and/or considering liquidity setting-up and asset purchase programmes, it is critical to understand that many businesses will have potential impairment of non-financial asset caused by Covid-19 in addition to yet drivers that causes poor performing of credit extended to businesses. The outcomes of the study examining businesses behaviour and why NPLs have continued to exist creating headache to banks, indicate that in addition to effects to be caused by Covid-19, poor credit assessment, weak credit values, light credit terms and conditions, forceful loaning, compromised integrity, poor loan monitoring, fragile institutional capacity, wilful default by borrowers and borrowers knowledge limitation on sectors credit is asked for, fund diversion and over/under financing due to weak credit appraisal will make tough time for banks as far as loan default is concerned. How much of this will stick, and how the banking sector in particularly is going to be impacted in the longer term is hard to predict. My appeal is any measure taken now has to focus on building a sustainable future.