BUSINESSPEOPLE in Dodoma Region have every reason to smile as operations in major business centres, including Job Ndugai Central Market which kicks off this month. According to City Council of Dodoma (CCD), Director, Godwin Kunambi, after the implementation of 89bn/-strategic projects in the city which have now been completed, opportunities for business have increased. The projects include a 24bn/-modern Bus Stand which has a rentable space of about 10,000 square kilometres, with the capacity to host 1,200 passengers at once as well as offering services to about 6,000 people. “This is the largest bus stand in the region and we want it to be a major source of internal revenue,’’ he noted. Other business opportunities, according to him, will be obtained at Job Ndugai Central Market. The 14bn/-facility has several places for businesspeople, including food vendors, people selling drinks, financial services like mobile money services and ATM machines, a household goods section, mixed goods and electronic goods, among others. Mr Kunambi said business areas up for grab would be obtained at the Chinangali Recreational Park constructed at 1.9bn/-. “This is a place where Dodoma residents and people visiting the city will have enough time to rest as the place has several entertainment places like grounds for basketball, long tennis, volleyball, a swimming pool, a junior swimming pool, children’s playground and places for food services, among others. Owners and drivers of tucks will equally have enough areas for parking after completion of the project. Vehicles are restricted to carry not more than 10 tonnes. According to Mr Kunambi, the implementation of those facilities as well as other projects, including roads and rail infrastructure, cost the city council about 89bn/-and operations at all facilities are expected to kick off by April 26, 2020. In this regard from today, businesspeople are supposed to visit the former Dodoma City Council offices to collect forms for renting spaces at different facilities, where as they will equally be required to pay rent for three months consecutively,’’ he said.