NO changes for Council of East and Central Africa Football Association (CECAFA) member states in the recent released FIFA World football rankings. Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and others maintained their positions due to the suspension of football activities in the world. Tanzania maintained its position at the134th position in the latest rankings, whereby CECAFA powerhouse Uganda are placed 77th and Kenya are at 107th position as they were positioned in the previous rankings. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) suspended the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers and Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) finals due coronavirus pandemic. National team, Taifa Stars was due to compete in CHAN finals and the team was pooled in group J of the 2021 AFCON qualifier along with Tunisia, Libya and Equatorial Guinea. Tunisia are placed 27th globally and second in Africa, while Libya are positioned 101 in the latest FIFA rankings. Equatorial Guinea are placed at the 145th slot in the world rankings. On continental rankings, Senegal are still on the lead as they have maintained their 20th position globally, followed by Tunisia (27), Nigeria (31), Algeria (35), Morocco (43), and Ghana (46). The football world rankings have seen no changes in the March rankings due to the suspension of all international games over the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Football across the globe has been suspended with no fixed dates for its resume. The suspension of all international football games as well local leagues games is part of global efforts and ongoing measures to combat the spread of COVID- 19 pandemic. A whole raft of international fixtures, including qualifiers for the FIFA World Cup and other major tournaments, were postponed, while dates were redrawn for showpiece men’s events such as the Olympic Football Tournament, CONMEBOL Copa America and UEFA EURO. Amid this upheaval, the ranking was impacted by just four matches – all friendlies – and, as such, remains all but identical to the previous edition. The solitary change sees South Sudan move into joint-168th position with Bermuda after the latter dropped a Ranking point thanks to a 2-0 defeat in Jamaica (48th, unchanged) on 11 March. The five other teams involved in friendly matches since the global ladder’s last update were Panama (played twice – 81st, unchanged), Uzbekistan (85th, unchanged), Belarus (87th, unchanged), Guatemala (130th, unchanged) and Nicaragua (151st, unchanged). Belgium continue to command the world rankings followed by France , Brazil (3), England (4), Uruguay (5), Croatia (6), Portugal (7), Spain (8), Argentina (9) and Colombia complete the top ten. The next World Ranking will be published on 11 June 2020.