THE government, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, yesterday assured the public that all plans are in place ahead of the General Elections scheduled for October this year. Minister for Home Affairs, George Simbachawene said in parliament that everything was in place to guarantee peace and security during and after elections. “I can guarantee that my ministry in collaboration with other sectors, are ready to ensure free and fair elections,” said Mr Simbachawene. The minister pointed out that the  ministry’s top priority was to ensure “a peaceful and tranquil general election.” Presenting the ministry’s budget estimates and expenditures for the fiscal year 2020/21, Mr Simbachawene also outlined a series of plans that include increasing the police force gears, constructing police, immigration and prison officers’ houses, decongesting prisons and reviewing a number of legislations under the ministry. “The police are charged with the safety of the people and properties. Working in collaboration with other stakeholders, we have been able to ensure peace and security in the country,” he said.  The minister requested the National Assembly to approve a total of 899.17bn/- budget for 2020/21 that saw funds allocated for development projects slightly increase to 35.43bn/-from 31.94bn/-. Records show that between July 2019 and March 2020, cases of criminal offences had dropped to 44,277 or 2.8 per cent from 45,574 cases that were reported in 2018/19.  The minister told the parliamentarians that the police was also fast-tracking investigations of all reported cases and it expects to increase crime-combating related training for its staff to facilitate excellent performance.  Mr Simbachawene was quick to note,  however, that there had been a sharp increase in the number of firearms and related violence especially in border regions and national parks. He attributed the trend to illegal immigrants and local producers. “We are planning to embark on a massive operation that includes verification of proficient certificates,” he said. At least 211 firearms and 531 rounds of ammunitions were impounded between July and March. Meanwhile, the minister announced a slight reduction of road accidents and causalities during the ending financial year, crediting it to the force’s intensified inspections and public awareness measures. Some 1,084 people were killed in 1,920 road accidents that occurred between July 2019 and March 2020. Although the cases dropped  from 1,216 that were recorded in the previous year involving 2,593 incidents, the State says it was awaiting the government’s final decision on amending the road safety Act. “The police are partnering with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) and community members  to enforce a tripartite campaign “Utatu” that seeks to end acts of corruption, especially within the traffic police,” he said. The ministry’s response to road accidents has however resulted in the nullification of 189 driving licenses, eight related to State drivers, 83 passenger cars, 26 trucks and 72 private cars. On construction of police buildings,  the minister said the government had completed work on 400 houses worth over 10bn/-in both the Mainland and the Isles. It is further planning to complete construction of police stations in North Unguja, Kagera, Mbeya and Simiyu. Mr Simbachawene said the police force was planning to intensify security operations, including providing escorts to private individuals and institutions in the transportation of money and other related precious items such as minerals. 