RELEGATION threatened Singida United have vowed to stay put in the top flight league next season, ignoring claims from sport pundits that they will be the first team to bid farewell to the league this term. Making the vow through a telephone interview yesterday was the club’s Director Festo Sanga, who reiterated that there is no way they will be relegated this season since they are ready to win all their remaining matches. “Looking at the teams we will face when the league resumes, I believe that if we will approach them seriously, we can win all the matches and reach 42 points, which is enough to keep us in the contest next season,” Sanga said. He added that the team’s Head Coach Ramadhan Nsanzurwimo is still in Singida during this period and said he already gave the players individual training sessions to be accomplished before the league resumes. “Forget about Singida United being relegated this season, even players themselves will be surprised by such comments because we are here to stay. Furthermore, Sanga pointed out that the outbreak of Covid-19 has had a big impact on them, saying when the league was suspended; the team had already picked up good rhythm. “Before the league was brought to a halt, we won 2-1 against Mbeya City and that was our turning point. We will continue from where we had ended,” he remarked. Since being promoted into the senior league in 2017, Singida United has never been relegated hence they have a big puzzle to lift themselves up from the jaws of the relegation. They remain at the bottom of the 20-team table with 15 points from 29 matches and have won few games (3) than any other team on the table. Again, Singida United have lost 20 encounters more than any other side in the contest, posting six draws and scoring 16 goals and conceding 49 goals. Other teams which need to battle hard to survive next season are Mbao FC, who sit 19th on the table with 23 points, Alliance are 18th on the log with 29 points, while Mbeya City accommodate 17th slot with 30 points respectively.