THE government yesterday announced indicative prices for retail sugar per kilogram for each region, ranging from  2,600/-to 3,200/-. The move is aimed at controlling unscrupulous traders who have been hiking the prices of the essential product. Minister for Agriculture, Mr Japhet Hasunga said the indicative prices will help to end the illegal practices by some traders who have been increasing the price to maximize profits. He noted that, currently the commodity  is trading at between 4,000/-and 4,500/-per kilogram. Mr Hasunga said the government will not tolerate such practices and that from now onwards, whoever would be found selling sugar contrary to the official prices would face legal actions. He said indicative prices   for retail sugar  in Dar  es Salaam  is 2600/- ,  while  for  Morogoro, Coast Region,  Tanga, Manyara,  Kilimanjaro and  Arusha is 2,700/-   and Lindi and Mtwara  is 2,800/- . The  cap  price   for Dodoma, Iringa, Njombe, Mwanza,  Simiyu, Geita, Shinyanga Singida  and Tabora is 2,900/- while  that of  Mara, Songwe, Kagera, Mbeya is 3,000/-and 3200/-for Rukwa, Katavi, Ruvuma and Kigoma. “These indicative prices have been set by considering the importation costs   incurred by local producers to cover the shortage of the commodity and the distance to the destination,” he said. Mr Hasunga further explained that, the actual demand of sugar in the country is about 470,000 tonnes,  the equivalent of 8,000 tonnes per month. He said local sugar factories were expected to produce  378,000 tonnes  during 2019/2020 season, which is equivalent to 82.9 per cent of the actual demand of the commodity but  they failed to meet the target  due to  various factors, including weather  condition. “The   capacity of our local factories  has created a shortage of 78,000 tonnes, which was  supposed to be produced   following improved weather conditions  and efficiency of our factories,” he said. On  his part, Minister for Industry and Trade  Mr Innocent Bashungwa said,  following the  shortage of the  product the government issued permits for local producers to import  sugar  to cover the deficit. “As of today a total of 10,710 tonnes of sugar have been imported and distributed   to all regions in the country,” he said. He further explained that another consignment of 13,500 tonnes is expected in the country between April 24, 28 and 30 this year. Mr  Bashungwa   noted that  the amount of sugar  produced in the country  and  the  imported consignment  was  enough to  meet the country’s  demand, calling upon  the people  to remain calm  because  the  country had enough  stock of sugar,” he said. Minister Bashungwa  further  said that the government would not tolerate errant  traders  who hike  the  price  of the essential  product. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa directed regional commissioners to take stern measures against individuals, especially distributors, wholesalers and retailers who sell sugar at high prices. "There is no reason for sugar price to rise above the normal price tag because there was enough stock in the country and another consignment has been imported,” he said.