SENTIMENTS centred on the youth being future nation builders is commonplace. We, Tanzanians, are among members of what is known as the global village who are fond of focusing on that aspect. On the surface, that is a plain fact, for as opposed to adults, the youth are far more energetic, and are thus better positioned to propel the nation forward, and fast. This is through a country tapping the resourcefulness of the youth, including energy and creativity, and investing it into a wide range of social welfare enhancement and economic development endeavours. Granted, this varies from individual to individual, but by and large, a crop of younger actors in the taxing physical and mental exercises that are associated with nation building activities are an essential investment into the critical nation building enterprise. It would be wrong to apply a blanket perspective on this issue, because there are many elderly people who are alternately known as senior citizens, who are a resourceful species whose ideas, advices and proposals are immensely valuable. What we shouldn’t lose sight of, however, is the fact that, youthfulness is not an end in itself. It has to be nurtured by being groomed from an early age. To that end, young people must be raised in a conducive environment that moulds that into a highly resourcefulness group. Unfortunately, the environment is not wholly conducive. To that end, our attention has been draw to the problem of some people, especially in rural areas, of people sharing houses with animals. The Project Manager of Korea’s United Help for Children (UHIC), Dr Regis Temba, says the practice exposes children aged below 10 to contracting airborne diseases. Particularly worrisome is the revelation by Dr Temba, that, the problem is deepening rather than decreasing. Let us vividly also remember United HealthCare Insurance Company (UHIC) held meetings with grassroots leaders in Pangani, Muheza and Tanga districts, geared at tackling the problem. Whereas the persuasive approach is fine, though, non-cooperative people should be sanctioned. For we are now engaged in spirited efforts to elevate Tanzania to industrial economy status and yet, we still have in our midst, compatriots who are sharing houses with animals. It is a hugely embarrassing problem that we should have overcome yesterday rather than do so tomorrow! It is not too late, however; so, let’s go right ahead and tackle it earnestly. Wasting youth resourcefulness is unacceptable.