EVEN after Young Africans Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela admitted to have had goofed in Clatous Chama’s transfer saga, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has intervened, anyway. TFF Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo said in a statement yesterday that the federation has received a complaint letter from Simba, requesting them to take a serious action against Yanga for talking with a player, who is still contracted to them. “The Federation has received Simba’s letter and forwarded the complaints to the Legal and Players’ Status Committee, which is the organ in charge of handling the matter,” reads part of the statement. Recently, Mwakalebela disclosed that they are in talks with Chama's agent and the player himself insisting that his contract with Simba expires in June this year. “What we want is for them (Simba) to give us assurance of how long is the contract of Chama because his agent has told us that only six months are remaining. He is a good player and Yanga would really like to have him,” Mwakalebela said. Immediately after the remarks, Simba SC announced on Tuesday that they will take stern measures against Yanga, for breaching player’ transfers laws. The Zambian creative midfielder has recently been the center of discussion in various media outlets over possible transfer to join the Jangwani Street based club despite him reportedly extending his stay at the Reds last season for two years until July 2022. Speaking about the controversy, Simba Information Officer, Haji Manara said they had already written a letter to the TFF, requesting them to take a serious action against Yanga for talking with a player, who is still contacted to them. “We want to give Yanga a lesson about this development, which is a serious offence in football as no club is allowed to talk with a player of another team about possible transfer if the player has more than six months remaining to his initial contract,” Manara said. He added that he was particularly disappointed to learn that the person, who made such remarks, is Yanga’s Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela. “It is appalling that Mwakalebela, who has vast experience in football having worked at TFF for almost four years can stoop that low. He is aware about when a player can start talking with other clubs about his transfer. “If the statement could have been made by a mere fan or member we could have regarded it otherwise…that perhaps he/she is not aware of the laws governing transfer of players but we cannot stomach a statement of such nature coming from a person of Mwakalebela stature, we will take it further from here. Moreover, Manara revealed that if Yanga really want Chama, they should wait for the right time to come like the way Simba did before signing Ibrahim Ajib and Gadiel Michael. “Let me be clear here that Simba can accept any offer to any of its players from any club and if the club (Simba) sees that offer as right, we can reach into an agreement. For the case of Chama, he is worth over 350,000 dollars (about 800m/-),” Manara said. On Monday, Chama wrote on his instagram page ‘I hate rumors, let me put this clear, the only club I’ll play in TZ is @Simbasc, and for the record Am very happy at Simba #stayhome#staysafe. However, Mwekalebela was apologetic on Tuesday evening, saying his utterance was purely meant for nothing else but teasing their traditional rivals.