Continued from last week MY career in the Public Service started at the Speaker’s Office in 1960, in the top-Management positions of Clerk-Assistant, later rising to become the Clerk of the National Assembly. And now, some thirty long years later in 1990, I found myself returning to the same Speaker’s Office, but this time in the top-leadership positions of Deputy Speaker, later rising to become the Speaker of the National Assembly. Such career route is rather unusual, and actually happens pretty rarely. As indicated last week, I had wisely decided to seek the elective political service posts; starting as a constituency Member of Parliament (MP) for Ukerewe constituency; followed immediately thereafter by that of Deputy Speaker, and subsequently Speaker of the National Assembly, all together covering a total of 15 years, from 1990-2005. My second tenure at the Speaker’s Office I campaigned for election to the Deputy Speaker’s post on the strength of my rich knowledge and experience of parliamentary affairs, which I accumulated from my previous service as the Clerk of the National Assembly. That is what enabled me to defeat the person who was Deputy Speaker in the Previous parliament, and who was seeking re-election. Barely two years after I was elected Deputy Speaker, the veteran Speaker, Chief Adam Sapi’s health started deteriorating. It thus became necessary for him to reduce his the amount of time he was required to sit in the Speaker’s Chair, guiding the proceedings of the House; and I, therefore, had to take over that responsibility. That is why, for example, in January 1993, and again in August 1993, I found myself handling two interrelated politically sensitive and delicate issues; with the first being the direct source and cause of the second issue. The first issue, which occurred in January, 1993; Was the National Assembly debate, and subsequent adoption, of a resolution challenging Zanzibar’s right to join the OIC (Conference of Islamic States), which Zanzibar had quietly done the previous December, 1992. Wow! challenging Zanzibar’s right to make that decision was regarded as challenging Zanzibar’s sovereignty! The other was another National Assembly debate, and adoption, of a resolution demanding the establishment of a Tanganyika Government within the Union. Wow! this was in absolute defiance of the Ruling party’s “sacred cow” policy, of the twogovernment Union structure! The issue of Zanzibar joining the OIC The Zanzibar Government had, apparently, secretly joined the Organization of Islamic States (OIC); Which was a breach of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. However, by mid-December, 1992, the watchful media had discovered this breach, and reported the matter. The Zanzibar Government, through its Chief Minister confirmed that they had indeed joined the OIC, and strongly defended Zanzibar’ right to take such action; pointing out that “although forming part of the United Republic, Zanzibar has its own President, its own House of Representatives, and its own Judiciary, which are independent from the Union Government”; and was therefore entitled to take such decisions on its own. That is when the Parliamentary Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee requested the Speaker’s permission to investigate this breach of the Union Constitution. Permission was granted, and the investigations commenced immediately. Upon completion of the investigations, the Committee reported its findings to the whole House in February 1993, which confirmed the Constitutional breach. These findings also revealed that, in fact, the Charter of the Organization of Islamic Conference itself restricts its membership only to “Any State, which is a member of the United Nations, and has a Muslim majority in its population”. Zanzibar is, of course, not a member of the United Nati ons. In the light of these findings, the Zanzibar Government magnanimously agreed to withdraw from membership of the OIC. The emergence of the ‘G .55’ However, this challenge by the National Assembly, had immensely displeased Zanzibar President Salmin Amour; who regarded it as an insult to the sovereignty of Zanzibar. He soon responded angrily in Kiswahili, that: “Wabunge hawa wametingisha kiberiti. . .watagundua kuwa kimejaa”. But that cheeky response in turn angered many of the MPs, who quickly joined together to form a “pressure group”, for the purpose of demanding the immediate establishment of a “Tanganyika Government within the Union structure|” which, they said, will be Tanganyika’s kiberiti kilichojaa”, in order to deal on equal terms with President Salmin Amour’s “kiberiti kimejaa”). That is the group which famously became known as the “G55”, because it was composed of fifty-five MPs. It was on 30th July, 1993, while the Budget session of the National Assembly was in progress, when this Group duly submitted to the Speaker, in accordance with normal parliamentary procedure, a formal notice of their jointly sponsored ‘Private Member’s motion’, which called upon the Government “to initiate immediately a process of consultations with all the relevant stake holders, with a view to presenting to the National Assembly before the month of April 1995, a Constitutional Amendment Bill which will make provision for the establishment of a Tanganyika Government within the Union structure”. That was also the time when I was shouldering the Speaker’s responsibilities, due to Chief Adam Sapi’s indisposition. I therefore had to preside over what was, technically, a ‘rebellion’ against the ruling party’s “sacred cow” policy of the two government structure of the Union! The move to establish a Tanganyika Government within the Union was actually intended to create a three-government Union structure. Thus, it was indeed a kind ‘rebellion’, because all the Members of Parliament were also members of CCM, the Ruling party. And all of them knew, or ought to have known, that this move was totally against the party’s declared policy of the two-government Union structure. But they still went ahead with their ‘rebellion’ which, in the short term, actually succeeded; Since it was dully debated in the National Assembly, and eventually unanimously adopted, nemine contradicente (with no one dissenting). But the motion had to go through several different amendments, arising out of discussions held at several party caucus meetings; until a final agreed version was crafted, which was eventually adopted on 24th August, 1993. However, their action brought about a serious political crisis, which took CCM a whole year to grapple with, aided by the active personal intervention of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere himself, who described its gravity as “having put our country on the edge of a dark and dangerous precipice”. He had by then gone into voluntary retirement both from the Presidency of Tanzania as well as the Chairmanship of the Ruling party CCM; But he suddenly emerged and played a very crucial role in successfully managing that crisis. Mwalimu Nyerere’s role in solving the crisis Information about the G.55 motion, reached Mwalimu Nyerere at his Butiama residence on 2nd August, 1993; through a message sent by Prime Minister John Malecela, who said that “in his opinion, if this motion is debated in Parliament, many of the Ministers will support it, and that he himself would have a problem in either opposing it or supporting it”. He therefore suggested that a seminar should be arranged for all Members of Parliament, together with those of the House of the Zanzibar House of Representatives, which will provide a forum for that motion to be discussed and opposed outside Parliament; and he asked Mwalimu Nyerere to agree to participate in that seminar, in the hope that his mega influence would “kill” that motion. Mwalimu Nyerere agreed to participate. But the seminar proposal was rejected by the Members of Parliament, and had to be abandoned. Surprised by that development, Mwalimu Nyerere called a press conference in Dar es Salaam, which was held on 16th August, 1993; At which he vehemently opposed the motion by the G.55. After which he went back to Butiama, in the (mistaken) belief that the Government would make use of his clearly stated position on the matter, and strongly oppose that motion when it came up for debate. However, to his utter disgust and disappointment, that did not happen at all. Instead, when the said motion was moved for debate, it was readily supported by the government benches and thus, as we have already seen, was unanimously adopted nemine contradicente by the whole House. A short-lived success Mwalimu Nyerere was absolutely flabbergasted by this outcome. He was particularly annoyed that the Prime Minister had done nothing to oppose that motion on behalf of the Government. He therefore asked to be invited to the next following meeting of the party National Executive Committee, so that he may explain his worries about the dangerous effects of that Bunge resolution on the stability of our Union. It is a long story, which has been succinctly narrated in my book Uongozi na Utawala wa Mwalimu Julius Nyerere (Nyambari Nyangwine Publishers, 2012). What happened is that the matter was put to a referendum of all CCM members, who were asked to decide, by secret ballot, what Union structure they preferred: The One-government; the two-government; or the three- government structure? The referendum results showed that the vast majority of the members preferred the existing two-government structure. Upon receiving these results at its August 1994 meeting, the National Executive Committee, requested its Chairman, President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, to convey this information to the members of Parliament, and try to persuade them to abandon their rebel resolution, a task which was carried out successfully at a special caucus meeting of the MPs; who magnanimously accepted the views of the majority of CCM members, and agreed to return to Parliament to pass a new resolution to withdraw their previous contentious resolution, which was to be expunge from the records. “All is well that ends well” (William Shakespeare) However, Mwalimu Nyerere had the last say; which is narrated in his book titled “Uongozi wa Nchi yetu na Hatima ya Tanzania”. In that book he discloses firstly, how he administered his revenge on Prime Minister Malecela, for the unforgivable offence of giving his personal support, and also allowing the Ministers to give their support, to that rebel motion in the National Assembly. He persuaded President Mwinyi to dismiss Prime Minister John Malecela; and CCM Secretary General, Horace Kolimba from their respective offices. But secondly, Mwalimu Nyerere also had a nice paragraph in there which, in effect, defended me from some unwarranted attacks by certain callous politicians. He said the following:- “Kwa sababu uamuzi wa kutaka Serikali ya Tanganyika ‘ndani ya Muungano’ ulifanywa na viongozi wetu wa Serikali kwa hila, na kupitishwa Bungeni kimya kimya; Sisi wengine hatukujua kilichokuwa kimetokea. Tulikuja kufahamu baada ya hapo, kutokana na kauli ya Mhe. Pius Msekwa aliyekuwa amesimamia kikao cha Bunge kilichofanya uamuzi huo, kwamba huo ulikuwa ni uamuzi wa Bunge zima, baada ya kuungwa mkono na Serikali. Nadhani viongozi wetu wa Serikali walitaka kuendele kuficha hilo na kuvunga vunga. Lakini yeye akatoboa. Nasikia kwamba baadaye aliitwa na kukemewa. Sijui kwa nini !”. Yes indeed, on one blessed day, I found myself being literally ‘harangued’ at a meeting of the party Central Committee (of which I was a regular member), with strange accusations that I had been “overly enthusiastic” (shabikia) in supporting the Bunge motion on the introduction of a Tanganyika Government! But even at that meeting, I had been fully defended by Horace Kolimba, the CCM Secretary General who, fortunately, knew the whole truth. piomsekwa@gmail.com / 0754767576.