AS the union marks the 56th Anniversary, achievements attained to date for Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar offer testimony that its founders, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume, struck a deal for unique political marriage that has entrenched peace and stability in the region. Most of us today at our professions and varied walk of life, in one way or another have come across arguments on issues in the union that have sometimes triggered heated debate amongst scholars from both parts of the union. When the People’s Republic of Zanzibar and the Republic of Tanganyika announced that they had merged to form a union, people were pleasantly surprised that the two independent countries managed something that other leaders of African countries had failed despite their interest to unify the continent. As we celebrate the 56th anniversary of the union, we recognize challenges that have cropped up since 1964 but we also value, cherish and proud of the achievements made so far as becomes even more relevant today in promoting peace and tranquillity as well as growth and development of the nation. As  close  economic  relations  and issues of common national interest deepen year by year, Zanzibar’s role  as  an additional gateway  to  the  Mainland  has been reinforced. Its strategic geographical location makes it a great investment destination and a link for global businesses and investments to enter the mainland market. Zanzibar has  always  been  a  built-up  economy,  serving  as  a  transportation,  trading  and  tourist hub of  Tanzania.  As  an  international  tourist destination it  is  meticulously  integrated  with  other  parts  of  the  world. Through  competing  and  co-operating  with  other  nations, Isles continues  to  increase,  progress  and  innovate. Today, it has reached first-class international standards in various domains as far as leisure destination is concern. It is plain obvious that a union of two countries cannot survive that long without challenges. But what is important how the people of the two sides have faced them and forged ahead with a focus on the big picture of regional cooperation and economic integration. Moving ahead with a big picture in mind does not mean to ignore the challenges. It means to constantly address them and identify the strengths and opportunities lying ahead. It  is  the  view  of  many  that  the  success  of  the  union and opening  up  of  the  Mainland  is  eroding  Isle’s established  strengths  in  a  relative  sense  and  diminishing  its  function  in  the  overall development of its people. I do not agree with this view. Since 1964 there have been firm commitments by the union government to expedite socio-economic development in Zanzibar. Unquestionably, this has been an interactive process as  Zanzibar has  also  been  active in  the  national  development  with  a  view  to  achieving  reciprocity,  mutual  wins  and  complementarity. As  ties  between  the Isles and  the  Mainland  are  getting  closer reinforced by union matters,  Isle’s positioning in the development strategies, mutual benefits and multiple wins are crucial in making the union relevant in the years to come. Taking stock of the gains of the union government and in particular looking at how it leveraged its strengths to boost growth and development in Tanzania, there are prospects that more would be achieved under the union and promote the relevance of the old adage `unity is strength.’          