MTIBWA Sugar yesterday disclosed that they have started to provide long term deals to their decorated players as one way to prevent them from easily being hijacked by big clubs in the country. This was revealed by the club's Information Officer, Thobias Kifaru, who said the move is not meant to deter other teams from signing their (Mtibwa Sugar) players but rather to make them follow required procedures. “Without doubt, Mtibwa Sugar is the top college in the country as far as grooming young football talents is concerned, since we invest a lot in youth development than any other club in the country. “It is becoming normal for big teams to rush here to get players during transfer window that is why we have decided to give our stars long term contracts, so that any team which want to sign them should come here and have mutual negotiations,” Kifaru said. He added that they have also realised that some clubs fail to use well players who are signed from Mtibwa Sugar, a thing he said such players to start requesting to rejoin the Manungu based team. “As a club, we benefit from selling players but for now, those who are being targeted by big clubs in the country have extended their contracts but the doors are wide open for any club willing to sign players here,” he narrated. Furthermore, Kifaru said ever since the club was promoted into the top flight league in 1995, they have never been relegated due to what he said massive investment in youth players. “We have Under-17 and Under-20 youth programmes, which have contributed a lot to bring required revolution at the club and this, should be a challenge for other teams to be serious in focusing much on youth development projects,” he said. He however conceded that until now, no club has knocked at their doors searching for their players despite latest speculations that league giants Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC are hunting players at Mtibwa Sugar ahead of next season's league chapter. As of now, Mtibwa Sugar occupies 13th place on the table with 33 points after 29 outings.