SIMBA SC players will continue with individual training at home until the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) decides on the fate of the Mainland Premier League, which is currently suspended. The club’s Chief Executive Office, Senzo Mazingisa announced the latest decision after meeting with players this week. Players have been provided with more special individual training programmes to carry out during the suspension period, to keep them fit until the league action resume. “Players should have personal training sessions in their places of residence in order to keep fit in this period of league suspension,”Mazingisa was quoted in the club’s official social media networks as saying. He said the priority is on health of everyone due to the outbreak of the deadly COVID -19 pandemic, which has resulted to the suspension of all sports activities in the country. “Currently, the important thing and the main focus is the big battle against coronavirus that is why we are encouraging our players to carryout individual training programmes. “The fight against coronavirus is serious as the virus is a big threat to global wellbeing. The virus has affected many football leagues including ours that is why we are insisting our players to carry out self-training,” said the South African sports administrator. On March 17th this year, the state through Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, issued a 30-day break for all sport events. As the top flight remained suspended runaway leaders Simba, who need to win five matches to retain the title for the third straight season, will have to wait a little bit longer for them to be crowned champions for 21st time. The Msimbazi Street lads sit top of the table on 7 1 points from 28 games, opening a massive 17 points above the second placed Azam from the same number of matches and 20 points above their traditional rivals Young Africans, who are third on the log after playing 27 matches. Simba management has insisted to its players that they should take the programme serious, warning those who will fail to fulfill or neglect the programme will face stiff action when the camp resumes. The technical bench will make fitness assessment of each player in which, they (players) will be put through rigorous training schedule to determine their fitness levels. Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck believes that the 30 days league break will benefit his players. The Belgian tactician believes the players will regain energy after enough relaxation to make them resume league action with much more thrust. However, Simba might miss the services of the leading goal scorer, Rwandese international striker Meddie Kagere, who went back to his native home after the coronavirus break. The Tanzania F ootball F ederation (TFF) had stated that all foreign players, who had travelled back to their home countries, will not be allowed to return to Tanzania if the suspension of the league is lifted after 30 days. “We have reminded the clubs that if in 30 days the league resumes, it will not be automatic that foreign players, who left the country will be allowed in until we are sure about their health." Some countries might take longer in combating the coronavirus, something that will have an impact on Kagere and his compatriot who plays for Kinondoni Municipal Club (KMC), Jean Baptiste Mugiraneza who returned to Kigali, Rwanda after TFF suspended the league. Also Simba’s Z ambian tantalizing attacking midfielder, Clatous Chama went back to Lusaka.