AS Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) leadership term at office ended on April 20 this year, plans for the next election have hit the brick wall due to Coronavirus outbreak. Government has suspended all sports activities among others as preventive measures to fight against Coronavirus spread in the country. TLGU Vice-President Anita Siwale has already send notification letters to all club members, directing them to start preparations for the coming election. However, she said the date is yet to be fixed. “We cannot fix the election date at the moment as the country and the world at large is still fighting the Coivid-19 pandemic, we will announce the date when the scourge is conquered,” she said. Siwale further said: “For clubs without lady captain, please nominate at least one electoral Committee member from your club for the election logistics,” she said. She added that it was important to start preparations now and make sure that all clubs have representatives, so as to smoothen the election process once everything is ok. Siwale named posts to be contested for during the election as -- union president, vice-president, honorary secretary, treasurer, competition secretary and handicap secretary. “According to our constitution, an Independent Electoral Committee of the Union has to be nominated by Executive Committee Members, and approved on General Meeting. “Since all lady captains are members of the Executive Committee, we would request all lady captains to elect/nominate at least one to two candidates from their respective clubs. As soon as this exercise is finished, we will seek a general meeting to approve those candidates,” she said. She added that as soon as the Electoral Committee is formed, it will go ahead with the procedure of providing nomination/application forms for candidates wishing to vie for the mentioned positions. She insisted that all applications/nomination must be submitted to independent election committee of TLGU that will conduct election. According to TLGU constitution as amended in 2019, candidates must be Tanzanian members of TLGU and must be elected only at Annual General Meeting or at Special General Meeting. Former national team member Sophia Viggo is the incumbent president of TLGU and she is yet to confirm her intentions to seeking re-election but she is free to vie according to the constitution.