THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has issued clarification, noting that if the coronavirus will not be conquered by June 31st this year, then the fate of the Mainland Premier League will be determined by relevant organ. TFF Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo issued a statement late yesterday, to clarify, following a report that went viral on social media yesterday, quoting the TFF General Secretary Wilfred Kidao as saying that the league will be cancelled altogether, if the situation remains the same by June 31st this year. In his statement, Ndimbo said if the coronavirus pandemic is not contained by the said date, then the federation’s relevant organs will meet to discuss how they can complete the current campaign. “It is still too early to say that the season will be cancelled, it is important we keep calm in regard to the fate of the league,” said Ndimbo. About two weeks ago, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) announced that the league will resume after 30 days but the remaining matches will be played behind closed doors. This decision was reached by the Management Committee of the TPLB that convened an emergency meeting in Dar es Salaam. The TPLB drew plans which would see all remaining league matches are completed by June. The development came after the suspension of all sports related activities for 30 days as announced last Tuesday by the government, as a precaution step to halt further spread of the coronavirus, which has reached at alarming stage across the globe. In his address to the nation on March 17th this year, Premier Majaliwa said the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports will to the immediate effect communicate to all sports bodies that they should halt sporting activities at least for one month as the government continues to monitor the situation. Immediately after the announcement by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) issued a statement to suspend the Mainland Premier League and other lower leagues. Runaway top flight leaders Simba, who need to win five matches to retain the title for the third straight season, will have to wait a little bit longer for them to be crowned champions for 21st times. After the meeting, TPLB Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Almas Kasongo said that the board has come up with four resolutions, of which all leagues will resume after 30 days but matches will be played behind closed doors. “We have agreed that top flight, First Division League (FDL), Second Division League (SDL) and Regional Champions League (RCL) will resume after 30 days, only that all the games will be played in an empty stadium,” Kasongo said. He also said that all players will be screened before the kickoff of any game to determine their health status in regard to coronavirus. The board has also resolved that all leagues should be concluded by June this year. The need to take all precautionary measures necessary against the rapidly-spreading coronavirus has forced sports bodies across the world to temporarily call off leagues and other competitions.