THE Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Almas Kasongo said the issue of club licensing will help a lot to develop football in the country once implemented successfully. Kasongo, who replaced Boniface Wambura at the helm of the TPLB last year, has been on the forefront campaigning for club licensing while insisting on clubs to be serious with the issue. "Immediately after taking over the position, I declared my priorities and the issue of club licensing was one of them. Until now, it is being discussed by many stakeholders in the country as a positive thing towards smooth development of our football. "I am happy to see good feedback from people about club licensing which is one of the key areas we need to fully direct our efforts to improve the game of football in the nation," Kasongo said. He added that club licensing has been the biggest challenge to be tackled for many years but he reiterated that time has come to accomplish its implementation. "Every journey you want to make, you start with one step and we have just started it. I hope that it will be implemented without difficulties since we are all willing to see our football moving forward," said he. Again, Kasongo mentioned the issue of league sponsors saying it still needs more sponsors to add on the available ones. "Currently, we have Vodacom, KCB and Azam TV as the main sponsors of the league. However, running a league is very expensive as such, we demand other partners to come forward and provide support as far as sponsoring is concerned. "All the three sponsors do recommendable job but others must step up as well to help in the smooth running of the entire league while insisting that doors are wide open for them," he said. Furthermore, the TPLB boss narrated that another area which is essential to upgrade football standards in the country is that of refereeing. "We are putting measures to enable our referees undergo as many courses as possible so that they keep abreast with the modern ways required in their jobs. By giving them such courses, they will be able to apply 17 refereeing rules without problems," he revealed. In the same token, Kasongo noted that they will also create various programmes  to produce more domestic football coaches who are competitive in the game and thereby reduce the dependency on foreign based coaches. He also touched on the importance of establishing good communication between his body and the public insisting that communication is vital for sports development everywhere in the world. However, from next season, the Mainland Premier League will go into transformation as the number of competing clubs will be reduced from the current 20 to 16 teams with four teams directly facing relegation while the fate of other two teams will be known from playoff.