ZANZIBARIS were yesterday challenged to scrupulously observe all expert precautions against the deadly corona virus, which has destabilised the entire world. Second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi said the rate of Covid-19 infections is likely to decline should every member of the society adhere to the health experts’ advice on how to avoid the novel virus. "We only need to follow guidelines and advice by our leaders and health experts, including the World Health Organisation (WHO)...united we will easily defeat the enemy," Ambassador Iddi said in his speech to wind up the 18th meeting of the ninth House of Representatives. Quoting expert statistics, he said 10,000 East Africans, including Tanzanians, are likely to have contracted the invisible virus by next month. Ambassador Iddi said the nation is currently engaged in a strong battle against the virus, which has been claiming between 800 and 2,000 lives within 24 hours in some hard hit countries. "When you are fighting with this kind of invisible enemy, which is attacking everybody, you have to be careful and cautious or else you will end up being taken captive," said the vice-president. He reminded leaders at all levels to work closely with wananchi to effectively enforce the precautionary measures against the fatal virus. Ambassador Seif commended all medics in Zanzibar and the Mainland for their dedicated efforts to fight the infections and handle the infected. "These (medics) are the current national soldiers," he said. Meanwhile, Ambassador Seif said the revolutionary government was determined to improve the drainage system in the city, noting that the government had invested colossal amounts of money in construction of the city's sewage system. He said construction of sewage systems at Chumbuni, Jang'ombe, Mwanakwerekwe-Sebleni-Mikunguni, Lumumba to Kwampiga Duri was completed and the infrastructures were already draining rainy water from many areas of Zanzibar city. The vice-president implored all Zanzibaris to continually support the government through its institutions, which had been entrusted with the responsibilities of managing cleanness of the sewage systems. He issued a strong warning against anyone found to have illegally connected to the drainage systems, saying strong legal measures would be instituted against the culprits. During the two-week session, which started on April 1, 2020, members of the House received and deliberated on eight bills and six reports, which were presented by various ministries. The House was adjourned to May 6, 2020 when the marathon budget and the last session under President Ali Mohammed Shein administration commence.