A FEW minutes of conversation with Aneth David will give you a glimpse of how strongly she believes in what she is pursuing—biotechnology. Aneth says that biotechnology is one of the fastest growing research and business areas in the world, with major revolutions in almost all areas of life. Many sectors benefit, or will benefit from biotechnology. For example, she mentions precision medicine, therapy for genetic based diseases and rapid development of vaccines, improved-fast and reliable-diagnostics as some of the areas in health sector that benefits from the scientific endeavor. In agriculture– biotechnology helps improving productivity in the face of climate change, less arable land to farm and more mouths to feed by improving crop and animal varieties which require less water to produce more in a shorter time and same amount of land and resist drought, insects and diseases. She explains that biotechnology is very useful in food and beverages production, allowing for faster and cleaner processes, for example, when microorganisms are modified for use for a specific fermentation process. Other areas include renewable energies– bio-ethanol and biogas, environmental waste management–composting, biogas and mushroom production, food industries –beer, juice and yogurt making, winery and manufacturing processes such as in paper and skin/hide processing. However, the scientist says that the field is relatively new and fledgling in Tanzania and Africa at large. “The prospects look good, with lucrative entrepreneurship opportunities in pharmaceuticals, food and beverage industries, renewable energy and even manufacturing/processing industries among others,” she says. She strongly views quality education and gender equality as the bases of individual and social progress. Born in 1990 in Kilimanjaro Region, Aneth was fascinated by science subjects from a very young age. At lower secondary school, she enjoyed and did well in biology and cookery. At high school, she enjoyed and did well in biology and food nutrition. “I just found them fascinating, plus they all had to do with understanding life, and promoting human life,” she explains. It is no wonder that she is a biologist today. To her, doing science subjects seemed the only natural option. Anchored at the UDSM, Department of Microbiology, Aneth is among few women biotechnologists (major: Agricultural Biotechnology) the country can be proud of today. Aneth went to Mawenzi Secondary School and then Majengo High School in Kilimanjaro Region and passed with Division I at both levels. But her achievements did not come as an accident. It was a combination of support from mentors, supervisors, people close to her, and off course, inner beliefs and personal efforts. Many molded, inspired and encouraged her. While her mother believed that going to school and doing well was a ticket to financial independence, which she believed is critical to a woman; Her uncle and aunt wanted her to do well in school and one day get a good job. She vividly remembers Mwalimu Munisi, her math teacher in standard 7, who was also the headmaster, and her science teacher, Madam Esther Rambau, at Rau Primary School. “She made me enjoy science so much,” she says of Ms Rambau. Aneth explains that both teachers were very inspirational in different ways. “The math teacher used fear as a motivator, so I had no choice but study it hard, but the science teacher was very interesting, so I just found myself enjoying the subject and wanting to know more,” notes Aneth. Higher learning Her first degree at the University of Dar es Salaam was on Molecular Biology and Biotechnology. During her MSc. Studies, she went a bit deeper into Agriculture Biotechnology and did some Bioinformatics work too. “Right now, I’m training and honing my Bioinformatics skills, I can’t call myself a Bioinformatician yet,” she notes. She was already doing a Master degree in Biotechnology when she applied for a position as a Tutorial Assistant back in 2015. “I had been looking forward to it and was glad when I got it,” she says. After completing her Master degree, she was promoted to Assistant Lecturer, a position she holds until today. “I really like and enjoy Biotechnology and Bioinformatics as subjects, but also as research areas… I’m glad with a career in academia, because it involves teaching and also has a research component,” she notes. Aneth is currently a PhD student sandwiched between UDSM and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), working on soil micro- organisms genomics. The study is about identification of soil microorganisms from farms/fields with the goal of eventually understanding how they contribute to plant health and productivity. Other projects/interests Apart from her busy schedule, Aneth makes sure that she gets time to inspire and encourage other girls. She accomplishes those noble duties related to promotion of science in general and women in STEM through the NEXT Einstein Forum (NEF) and women in Tech Africa (WiTA) Tanzania chapter. She became the NEF ambassador by chance rather than by design. “A colleague shared the call for ambassadors, and I thought that I wasn’t a good fit. But after a lot of encouragement and a push, I finally applied and was selected to represent Tanzania,” she notes. For WiTA, she was recommended by a friend, the NEF ambassador for Kenya, who is also the country chapter lead. In both NEF and WiTA, she generally advocate/champion for science and technology causes though different activities and projects; the only difference is that WiTA is more focused on women and girls. She engages with the local community in Tanzania and beyond through activities like the Africa Science Week and WiTA week, which are annual events featuring science experiments/projects for primary and secondary school students, panel talks, workshops and trainings. She is also very active on social media, and occasionally writes on her blog and for newspapers and magazines on subjects related to science and technology. The major success for her is the awareness creation and inspiration for young people, especially girls, to pursue science careers. “There is a serious information gap in Tanzania, and I’m glad I can contribute even a tiny part in bridging that gap,” she notes, adding that as a result of being an ambassador, she has been able to forge a network of friends all over the continent. Advice “We need to work harder towards a society that provides equal opportunities for all,” she says, adding that everyone has a role when it comes to promoting important causes, such as science and technology and gender equality. She explains that to succeed as a scientist, many other skills outside the “lab” that are not offered in class are equally crucial. She mentions some of them as communication skills to reach beyond the academia and scientific community; leadership skills as well as strategy and clarity of vision. According to her, overemphasis on the girl and leaving the boy behind is not right. “If girl/women empowerment is to succeed, no one should be left behind,” she emphasizes. The scientist is of the opinion that waiting until girls get to higher levels of education to start talking to them about science and technology is a wrong approach. “I think it should begin way earlier, when girls are young so that they grow with the mentality that they can be whoever they want, including becoming an accomplished scientist,” she says. To the young, she says, they should understand themselves, their strengths and weak areas; leverage their knowledge, skills and experiences to jump on opportunities that surround them, focus on those and be patient. Things take time to bear fruits. She also says that young people should own their fate - be purposeful about everything they do, do not leave their life on the hands of external forces and stop blaming everyone else, including parents, the government, the school they attended, their bosses and others.