RELIGIOUS leaders have called for behavioral change among believers in the world by participating in prayers and keeping track of teachings through visual platforms instead of flocking to churches, temples and mosques as part of the measures to tame the spread of coronavirus. They said given the current situation when the world is facing the pandemic, clerics all over the world have the duty to take all the necessary precautionary measures to save their congregations from contracting the deadly virus. The leaders from Tanzania, India and South Africa who held a seminar over the internet (Webinar) yesterday under the facilitation of Global Interfaith Wash Alliance in partnership with UNICEF, said religious leaders are duty bound to advise their congregations to make more use of visual platforms such as radio, television and social media for fellowship and sermons. They urged religious leaders across the continent to remind their congregations on the importance observing social distancing and adhering to directives and other guidelines issued by health and government officials. Secretary-General of the Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC), Rev Dr Charles Kitima, said: “Failure to make physical appearance in church or other places of worship is not an offence, especially during this time when religious leaders are looking for ways to stay connected to their congregations away from prayer houses,” he said as he requested people to voluntarily do so. Dr Kitima elaborated that the church doors were not closed currently in the country, and the Catholic Church was adhering to all preventive measures, including increasing number of services to reduce the number of people per mass. He stressed that religious leaders, among other duties, were obliged to speak on social issues, adding that during this time, they had the responsibility to educate and create awareness to the congregations on the seriousness of the pandemic and how to avoid it. “The community has confidence in messages given by religious leaders as they are not politically affiliated, thus we play a crucial role in this war and be guided by facts,” he said. The Secretary-General, Christian Council of Tanzania, Rev Canon Moses Matonya, emphasized that there is a need for religious leaders to remind people on the importance of social distancing and observing all protective measures, especially in worship houses. “On the 16 April 2020, as a way of sending the message to people on the magnitude of the problem and seeking everyone’s devotion wherever they are and regardless of the religion, will be a day of prayer against the novel virus,” he said. He further encouraged parents to keep children safe at home, and not permit them to play with other children outside. Meanwhile, the Presiding Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania, Archbishop Dr Frederick Shoo, remarked that it is now an opportunity for families to stay together and churches to provide social circle support. “It is a chance to reconnect with families and be counseled on how to stay together as a family; and for parents to pay special attention to their children and avoid gender violence and child abuse practices,” he further said. When it is said that do not be afraid it does not mean we should ignore instructions given by the government and health experts on preventive measures, he pointed out. COVID-19 knows no gender, religious differences, age and does not carry a passport. It will affect everyone, asserted South African Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, Dr Thabo Makgoba. Spreading the message of hope, founder and chair of the Global Interfaith WASH Alliance Pujya Swami Chidanand Saraswati said that, even at the time of lockdown as it is in India, people should remain strong and not be stressed. “We can stay locked and never fill down. Our energy, humility should always stay strong. What is important is to remind our congregation that we should take the precautions but not panic; and tell people to be more prayerful, stay positive, and maintain our spirituality as they are immunity boosters.”