DODOMA District Commissioner (DC), Patrobas Katambi has advised civil servants as well as and private sector employees to start investment activities earlier enough to further eke out a living after official workforce retirement. “For us as public servants, we should know that success does not come as a result of stealing while in office, we have seen how former Premier Mizengo Pinda has recorded a tremendous achievement by taping the available opportunities,’’ he said. The DC further noted that for those planning to retire should learn from Mr Pinda’s successful story and start putting up investment structures for a brighter retirement. Mr Katambi  made the observation recently while reinforcing the former Premier’s call upon the citizens especially government employees to invest in agriculture, saying it was one of ways of boosting  incomes. During the occasion, Mr Pinda was presented with 12-green houses to facilitate his horticulture farming, where he pointed out that the crops produced improve people’s health and fights stunting. He said that if people want to get out of poverty, agriculture was the main economic activity for them. Mr Pinda used the platform to underscore the need to concentrate on horticulture farming, saying malnutrition and stunting rates in the country continue to go up, because people are eating poor diet and fail to observe health officers directives. “We have had a myth in our communities that people who eat vegetables are poor, but the truth is that vegetables help people to get healthier,’’ he said. Mr Pinda said the decision to establish vegetable farming through greenhouses dawned on him when he was appointed as an ambassador of an institution that was tasked to deal with stunting and malnutrition in the country. “I was tasked to raise an institution that focuses on malnutrition and stunting address, that is why I decided to lead by example by starting vegetable farming, which will help to improve our peoples’ health,’’ he added. Since his retirement from public service in 2015, Mr Pinda has been engaged in agriculture and livestock keeping at his Zuzu farm that he also runs as awareness and education centre to teach the public especially students from higher learning institutions in Dodoma region. In explanation, he attributed his livestock keeping and agriculture success to loans, he used to acquire from different financial institutions. 