EDUCATION, Science and Technology Ministry on Wednesday said it is continuing with its plans to improve schools’ infrastructure and subsequently the quality of education provided in public institutions. The Minister, Prof. Joyce Ndalichako said apart from the government releasing 23.8bn/-monthly capitation grant to stimulate free education programme, it is equally working to renovate and build more school infrastructures as a way of responding to the growing demand. Immediately after the state announced free education, primary school enrollment for instance rose from 1,464,376 pupils in 2014 to 1,810,814 pupils in 2018. “This increases the demand for classrooms, teachers, toilets, desks among other needs,” she noted. She said part of the government plan included renovating the existing schools and improving learning and teaching environments. Prof. Ndalichako emphasized that authorities are also working to improve teaching curriculum, addressing education challenges and increasing access to teaching and extra-curriculum books. Prof. Ndalichako detailed that in the 2019/20 academic year; the government published and distributed 1,359,350 books for nursery school through primary V, making a ratio of 1 book for three pupils. “Likewise, a total of 1,567,537 Kiswahili, Science, Maths and Art books were distributed in secondary schools,” she noted. About 73 old public schools were renovated between 2015/16 and 2019/20 and completed 2,815 structures. The minister told parliamentarians that the state is also strengthening the education quality control unit by recruiting an additional 400 officers and constructing the unit’s office in 100 councils across the country. The quality control unit is conducting an assessment of both public and private schools with the view of ensuring the education laws, policy and regulations are fully observed at schools and councils. Earlier, Special Seats MP, Suzan Massele (Chadema), wanted to know why the government has failed to improve the quality of education delivery in public schools. She observed that public schools have for long been facing endless challenges that limit their ability to compete with private schools. Ms Massele urged the government to address the challenges, especially those related to education infrastructures.