CHINA’s Assistant Foreign Minister Chen Xiaodonghas  has reacted on claims of mistreatment, discrimination and stigmatisation against African nationals in China raised by some African diplomatic envoys, saying the government of the second largest economy in the world is paying serious attention to the issues. China’s position on the claims was revealed in a statement released to the media on Tuesday after the Chinese official met and held talks with representatives from 20 African countries to deliberate on the situation in Guangdong Province with regard to the local COVID-19 response. According to Mr Chen, the African people have always been dear friends and brothers to share joys and sorrows. "Ours is an unbreakable friendship that has taken deep root in the hearts of people both in China and Africa," he said. He pointed out that the COVID-19 outbreak  has further strengthened the relations between the two sides (Africa and China) to countries to fight the challenge. He, however, noted that China felt deeply for African friends who are now also battling the virus and decided to provide emergency containment supplies to the continent despite its own outbreak challenge. Mr Chen noted that the outbreak is a serious test, thus the two countries needed to strengthen solidarity and maintain friendship and cooperation more than ever. "The Chinese side will do everything it can to deliver more support to Africa, and fight with Africa until the final victory is won against the outbreak," noted Mr Chen. Elaborating on the allegations, he said China has taken the most comprehensive, stringent and thorough action to fight the virus and is  the reason why they managed to contain the outbreak. The assistant minister disclosed that the country is still facing a growing challenge in preventing imported cases. "This is particularly the case with Guangdong, a leading province in China's opening-up endeavor, with much higher risks of inbound transmission. We must institute more rigorous measures across the board and tighten all potential loopholes that may trigger a rebound. "This is the only way to make sure that everything we have worked so hard to achieve will not be lost. China is doing this not just to be responsible to its own people, but also to the Africans and indeed all foreign nationals in Guangdong," he said. Thus, Guangdong authorities were taking a number of steps to improve its response, therefore health measures are implemented in a non-differential way. Mr Chen further stated that from the day of the meeting, measures on Africans who are neither confirmed cases nor close contacts (suspected cases included), will be lifted in a phased way pursuant to relevant containment protocols. He said a mechanism for effective communication will be established with African consulates general in Guangzhou. "The Chinese government treats all foreign nationals in China alike. This is China's consistent policy and position. In China, we always make sure that African friends are treated in a fair, just and friendly manner. “The Foreign Ministry will stay in close contact with Guangdong to earnestly address the legitimate concerns of the African side," stressed the Chinese official. The Acting Dean of the African Diplomatic Corps and other African diplomatic envoys expressed appreciation to the Chinese Foreign Ministry for holding the meeting and having open, in-depth discussions with them on the situation of the Africans in Guangdong. They said it demonstrates the seriousness and sincerity of the Chinese side in dealing with this matter and sends a positive message of the two sides being willing to engage in friendly consultation. The envoys recognised the profound friendship between Africa and China that has withstood the test of time. "When the outbreak began, African leaders and people were among the first to voice support for China. African envoys in China chose to stay behind and stand firmly together with the Chinese people," stated the dean. They thanked China for actively supporting and assisting Africa's control efforts in spite of difficulties. Among other concerns raised by the envoys include specific issues in Guangdong Province's outbreak control related to African nationals, such as nucleic acid testing, accommodation, visa, and the treatment of African students. They commended the Chinese side for informing them of the steps already or to be taken by Guangdong authorities, including establishing channels of dialogue and communication with African consulates general in Guangzhou. The envoys said that they will immediately, fully and faithfully report to their capitals and notify their nationals in Guangdong, and look forward to the timely and effective implementation of such measures. The African side will work with the Chinese side to urge and guide African nationals to abide by Chinese laws and observe the containment measures of China.