TRANSFER rumours have continued to trend at this tense moment when Mainland Premier League and other sports have been suspended countrywide. Involving such big names like Simba, Young Africans, Azam, Namungo FC, Coastal Union, transfer rumours herald sports headlines at this time when all sports activities have been halted. Trending top include Simba SC Congolese attacking midfielder, Deo Kanda, who was reportedly to have signed a two-year deal with the Msimbazi Reds. Kanda joined Simba from DR Congo side TP Mazembe on a yearlong loan deal, which has since elapsed. His contract with TP Mazembe has also expired. He has scored seven goals. Also trending is the transfer deal involving Mainland Premier League top scorer Meddie Kagere, Clatous Chama, Saidi Ndemla and Hassan Dilunga all from Simba, while others are Bigirimana Blaise of Namungo, Sixtus Sabilo (Polisi Tanzania), Bakari Mwamnyeto (Coastal Union), Donald Ngoma of Azam FC. Polisi Tanzania’s Sabilo has declared ready to serve any club when his contract with the Kilimanjaro-based side expires in June this year. Sabilo, who has been the team’s key striker, has shown his interest of featuring for one of the Dar es Salaam giants; Simba or Yanga believing his talent will be well developed there. Sabilo, who has scored six goals prior to the league’s suspension, has been reported to be among the players listed by both Simba and Yanga for the next league season. The  striker who has so far managed to score against both Simba and Yanga, said he is open to talk to any of the two and  will sign to serve the one who offers him the best package. It is not only Sabilo who is on two giants’ radar, there is also his team mate and midfielder maestro Baraka Majogoro. Also widely reported is Simba`s striker Kagere, who was said to have attracted the attention of a Spanish LaLiga club Levante, but Simba SC quickly refuted that report, saying Kagere is still serving the club. According to Kagere’s agent Patrick Gakumba, the Spanish club had contacted him about the Ugandan born, Rwandese striker and they were ready to give him a short-term contract, but the striker turned down the offer. Responding more on the move, Simba insisted that they had never been in contact with the Spanish club. Kagere, who is Simba’s leading scorer, had netted 19 goals before the league was suspended. Also falling in the transfer bucket is Namungo FC prolific striker Bigirimana Blaise, who said is open for one of  the three Dar es Salam giants; Simba, Yanga or Azam by next season. “I still have a valid contract with Namungo FC, which will expire at the end of this season,” he said, adding that he will move to any of the big clubs that may need his services. Bigirimana has so far featured in 22 league matches for Namungo, scoring nine goals and providing six assists. At Azam Camp, Zimbabwean import Donald Ngoma is facing uncertain future as his contract nears completion and, no contract extension has been offered to him. The club's Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Abdulkarim Amin however said they were waiting for recommendations from the Head Coach Aristica Cioaba. The Zimbabwean striker joined Azam FC in 2018 from Young Africans but saw his playing time limited due to frequent injuries he picked. Also peaked transfer rumours revolved around Coastal Union defender Bakari ‘Nondo’ Mwamnyeto, whose signature is being hunted by both Simba and Yanga. But to the two giants’ dismay, there are reports that the player may turn professional in Belgium or Greece. Mwamnyeto, who is also the national team, Taifa Stars key player has had an outstanding performance prior to the league suspension.