THE Holy books, be it the Bible, Quran you name it have testimonies of how prayers of Saints, Prophets, Sheiks and other disciples/apostles asked for God’s interventions in different difficult institutions and their prayers were answered. How prayers work is an enigma and does not require any school of thought to elaborate, but simply illustrate that God is above all and the creator of all, hence has powers to intervene, when His people, He created in His own image suffer. They also teach us the importance of prayer to God that is why constantly our leaders have leaned to it to rule and govern the nation. Since the coronavirus pandemic started claiming human lives, Pope Francis in an interview with the Italian daily newspaper, “La Repubblica”, said praying is the only weapon to end the scourge. Back home, President John Magufuli asked for three days to be dedicated for prayers so that God intervene against the disease that is out to ravage mankind. This is because prayer glorifies God and reinforces our need for Him as the very source and purpose for our existence, bearing in mind that prayer can have numerous benefits. For example, prayer can be a solid source of self-soothing and self-comfort when one is experiencing pain, coping with loss, or dealing with traumatic circumstances We all know that God is powerful enough to win any battle and with special prayer (like the one Jesus had-Matthew 26:39: “He went on a little farther and bowed with his face to the ground, praying, ‘My Father! If it is possible, let this cup of suffering be taken away from me” is a live testimony of the whole nation’s destiny being in God’s hand to intervene. For the Holly Quran, vide Surat: Al fatiha (The opening) surat 1 verse 5 (1:5) “It is You we worship and You we ask for help.” This time round as the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children (MoHCDEC) in collaboration with religious organizations in the country convening another prayer day today (Wednesday), each and every citizen, regardless of one’s political affiliation and denomination, should pray for God’s intervention against this disease that also cripples global and our economy. Led by the Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa at the Karimjee Grounds such kind of remarkable events and encounters lend comfort, strengthen faith -- even save lives -- at times, when God’s intervention is needed most. Hence, it is a polite appeal to the public, who will be represented by some of their leaders to also have individual prayers, while following the proceedings through different ways, wherever they would be because we are all affected not infected by the scourge.