LED by religious leaders, Tanzanians yesterday began holding special prayers, asking the almighty God to heal the nation from the world ravaging COVID-19 pandemic that has so far claimed the lives of five people and infected 147 others. The Arch Bishop of the Glory of Christ Tanzania Church (GCTC) Dr Josephat Gwajima, Reverend Dr Eliona Kimaro of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT)’s Kijitonyama Parish and Dar es Salaam Sheikh, Alhad Mussa Salum were among the religious leaders who led the prayers. The prayers are  being held in response to a proposal floated by President John Magufuli issued through his Twitter handle @MagufuliJP on Thursday evening. The Head of State asked Tanzanians to dedicate three days from Friday-Sunday (17–19 April)  to prayers to overcome the threat of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. "My fellow Tanzanians, due to the presence of Coronavirus, I  ask that we spend three days from 17-19 April (Friday, Saturday and Sunday) to pray to God  who is the master of everything to rescue us from this disaster, lets pray according to our beliefs," read the Tweet of President Magufuli. During the prayers that were  broadcast live by the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC), Rev Kimaro said through prayers, the country can be healed and God will help us all. Before he prayed, the cleric delivered the biblical message from the book of Jeremiah 30:17 that reads: "For I will restore health into thee, and I will heal thee of thy wounds, saith the Lord, because they called thee an outcast, saying, this is Zion, whom no man seeketh after." Bishop Gwajima said the fear of the COVID-19 in the country is greater that the virus itself, reminding Tanzanians to remain active in taking all preventive measures against the deadly coronavirus. "As we pray, it's crucial that all members of the country continue to follow all the guidelines by health experts; all things should go together, he said. For his part, Mufti of Tanzania, Sheikh, Abubakar Zuberi shared the same message with what was said by Sheikh Alhadi Mussa Salum, that prayers and strong belief in God are the key weapons for winning whatever battle. As other religious leaders, the duo also reminded Tanzanians and worshipers to ensure they maintain social distancing in churches and mosques as well as taking all other preventive measures. Dr Magufuli's Tweet got positive response from his followers as most of them supported the idea, saying they would definitely do what the Head of State had proposed. Among them were  Mr Godbless Lema the Member of Parliament (CHADEMA) for Arusha Urban Constituency and Mr Wiliam Ngeleja the Sengerema MP on the CCM ticket. Mr Lema said he would fast for the same purpose, while Mr Zitto Kabwe, who is the MP for Kigoma Urban Constituency and leader of ACT Wazalendo party, stressed the importance of avoiding mass gatherings and undertake hand washing as recommended by health experts. On their social media accounts, majority of Tanzanians reposted Dr Magufuli’s tweet as part of efforts to spread the message from the president to the country. Yesterday, many Tanzanians showed solidarity as the wake up with the message of prayers that went viral on social media with majority sharing it on their accounts. The message that was highly shared on day one of national prayers was the biblical phrase from 2 Chronicles 7:14 that read, "If my people who are called by my Name will humble themselves, and pray and seek my Face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from Heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their Land".