TANZANIA Karate Association (TKA) has lauded World Karate Federation (WKF) for their efforts to help players during this Coronavirus pandemic by introducing online training session. Elisiana Katani, the association’s Communication Officer told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the newly introduced online training sessions from different instructors, national team preparation has been well received and has recorded good success. She said the training has been a big help for the national team karatekas preparing for the Funakoshi Gichin Cup, the 15th Karate World Championship Tournament to be held in October in Japan. “As we all understand that Coronavirus has affected many sports in the world, we cannot let players practice together because it is dangerous to them. “But we are lucky that WKF Japan headquarter brought top instructors who can give lessons online that we as individuals can follow and do our part,” she said. Katani added that the online session has been very helpful for individual and team at large as it insures stay safe when conducting it. She added that is an important opportunity for them and she thanked Japan for caring the welfare of players and the game in general. Katani insists that it is very important for players to continue keeping fit while undergoing individual or home practice until the situation returns to normal. She said the team will inter a residential camp once the situation changes and she called upon all players to continue following safety instructions so as to remain safe from virus infection. This will be the 15th  edition of World Karate Championship that held after every three years and rotate among the country members. Seinsei Jerome Mhagama from Tanzania Shotokan Karate-do Association, who also serves as  Japan Karate and WKF instructor, said that since it started, Tanzania has already taken part in past two tournaments, including the 2011 one held in Thailand where they sent one player. The lone envoy did well to reach the last 16 stage. Tanzania was also invited at the 2014 tournament held in Japan, but it couldn’t  send a player due financial constraints. This time around Tanzania has also secured an important chance as Sensei Mhagama has been selected among the tournament’s judges.        