AS the number of Tanzanians who have tested positive for the coronavirus continue to rise, Sanlam Life Insurance Tanzania and Sanlam General Insurance Tanzania, have stepped up to contribute to national efforts to reduce the impact of the disease. Sanlam Companies have donated 172.5m/-to the National Relief Fund to fight COVID-19 received by the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu on behalf of the Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa. Speaking during the event, Mr Julius Magabe, the company’s Regional Executive Officer for East Africa, said that Sanlam is highly conscious of the fact that the prevailing situation is totally unprecedented and that the country has found itself needing to deal with a large-scale health and social behavior change intervention. “We recognize that there are people in of urgent medical needs following circumstances precipitated by rising positive Covid-19 cases and during this critical period, as responsible corporate citizens, we deem it important, to take part in supporting the government’s efforts in ensuing the health and safety of families, colleagues and communities at large,” said Mr Magabe. He explained that the Sanlam Group and its Tanzanians entities namely Sanlam Life and Sanlam General, believe that it was important to ensure public awareness and compliance is desired behavior change for people to remain safe. The Health Minister thanked Sanlam management on behalf of the PM, for supporting the government’s efforts at the right time. “Your support is highly appreciated as it arrived on the right time, when it is highly needed. With thanks, we urge other business entities as well as individuals to continue supporting the government on this fight. We promise we will not let you down,” she said. In the meantime, the Sanlam companies have activated socially responsible protocols including establishing new working arrangements and where appropriate, reducing the number of staff at office premises with shorter working hours to minimise exposure.