THE Principal Judge, Dr Eliezer Feleshi has called upon all judicial officers to work hard, uphold ethics and take precautions against the spread of Coronavirus. Judge Feleshi made the remarks at the end of his five-day tour of the High Court's Dar es Salaam Zone. According to the statement issued by the Directorate of Information and Communication of the Judiciary of Tanzania, Dr Feleshi visited several courts, notably Kigamboni, Temeke and Ilala District Courts, as well as Temeke, Mbagala, Ukonga, Buguruni and Ilala Primary Courts in Dar es Salaam. He also visited Mkuranga, Kibiti and Rufiji in Coast Region and Morogoro Magistrate's Court, the Mvomero District Court and the Morogoro, Mvomero and Kingolwira Primary Courts in Morogoro Region. Addressing staff of the Morogoro Resident Magistrate's Court as well as Morogoro and Mvomero District Courts, Dr Feleshi underscored the need for court employees to observe precautionary and preventive measures while on duty. He said while carrying out their duties, they should adhere to precautions and follow all instructions provided by health professionals in dealing with the deadly disease. He pointed out that the Judiciary of Tanzania would continue with its constitutional mandate of dispensing justice to the people despite the existence of the disease. Judge Feleshi revealed that the Judiciary would maximize use of Information and Communication (ICT) for timely justice delivery. The principal judge added that in response to Coronavirus, judicial officers have to comply with the instructions provided, including use of sterilisers and frequently wash their hands with soap regularly. The principal judge witnessed implementation of the instructions of health professionals where various measures have been taken in combating disease, including the installation of hygiene products such as water, tissue soap and hand hygiene in all courts. Referring to the steps taken, Resident Magistrate in Charge of Morogoro Resident Magistrate's Court Abeesiza Kalegeya said other measures were taken to reduce congestion around court premises, saying procedures were put in place to reduce the number of people entering the courts. "Currently persons allowed to enter the premises are parties to a case, accused persons, witnesses, lawyers, police and other judicial stakeholders in need of essential services," she told the principal judge. Regarding filing of new criminal cases, Kalegeya explained that admitted cases are only those whose investigations have been completed, while other cases whose investigations are incomplete were being adjourned for a month. "Also remand prisoners are not brought to court, except those whose cases are at the hearing stage. For cases whose accused persons are out on bail, priority has been placed on cases that have been pending in court for more than 12 months," she said. According to the magistrate, the judiciary has now put in place a mechanism for imposing lenient bail conditions to accused persons to facilitate the reduction of congestion of inmates in prison to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. During his visit, the Chief Justice also inspected the ongoing construction of court projects in the Dar es Salaam region. The projects under inspection include the construction of Integrated Justice Centres in Kinondoni, Temeke, and Morogoro. The Tanzanian Judiciary has begun the construction of six Integrated Justice Centres in the cities of Arusha, Mwanza, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma and Morogoro. Those centres that are expected to be completed within ten months will include the High Court, Resident Magistrate's Courts, District and Primary Courts and stakeholder offices within one building. The aim is to facilitate justice services and to move court services closer to the public.