AIRTEL Tanzania Plc yesterday confirmed that it will contribute 700m/-to the Ministry for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, primarily to support health workers on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19. The remarks were made during a cheque handing over ceremony to the Minister of Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children. Speaking in Dar es Salaam at the event, Airtel Tanzania Board Chairman, Gabriel Malata said Airtel owned in partnership with the government have come together to contribute 700m/-which will be channeled towards on providing protective equipment’s for the medical staff who are at frontline on fighting against corona epidemic in the country. “As you are aware, Airtel Tanzania is owned in partnership with the Government where government owns 49 percent of stake share. In this case, it is good for the public to understand that they own Airtel Tanzania through their government,” he said. He added, “I take this opportunity to congratulate the government on the good measures it has been taking since the outbreak of this pandemic in the country. I also congratulate the Ministry for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children for the efforts it has been putting in educating the public on how to safeguard against Covid-19,” Managing Director, Airtel Tanzania, George Mathen said, “We confirm our support for Tanzania’s coronavirus response through a contribution of 700m/-primarily focused on supporting our frontline health workers. Now more than ever, we all need to apply our capabilities to the needs of nurses, doctors, midwives and community health workers. At this moment of crisis, no country can cope with what they need alone. The private sector needs to mobilise resources, alongside national governments, to fight the raging pandemic,”. On her side Minister for Health for Tanzania Minister of Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu said, this is an important partnership with Airtel Tanzania Plc and demonstrates a real commitment to support for the health workers who are battling day after day to defeat this pandemic. As individuals, members of the public should strictly follow the key hygiene measures and social distancing, to help flatten the curve of the epidemic, avoid overwhelming hospitals, and preserve access to healthcare. Airtel has already taken several steps to help mitigate the impact of social distancing on its customers during the coronavirus outbreak and implemented various measures in all retail shops to minimize contact as well as providing hand sanitizers for its frontline staff and gloves for all staff that have to handle cash. The Company is also already assisting through the dissemination of messages about the pandemic at no cost to the entire base of Airtel customers every day.