THE Tanzania Atomic Energy Commission (TAEC) has stressed the importance of radiation analysis in food products to ensure Tanzanian goods that are exported are safe and protect the country’s market. TAEC utilised the 56th Zanzibar Revolution Exhibition on Education and Business taking place at Maisara Grounds in Zanzibar to raise public awareness on radiation analysis in food products. TAEC Head of Public Relations Unit Peter Ngamilo said it was the second year for TAEC to participate in the exhibition, availing opportunities to businesspersons to learn more about procedures for issuance of import and export goods permits. The 14-day exhibition that ends tomorrow was launched by Zanzibar House of Representative Speaker Zubeir Ali Maulid and was organised by Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade) in collaboration with the Zanzibar Revolutionary Government. There are reasons for radiation analysis on food products, including protection of consumer safety against potential radiation. The Atomic Energy Act No 7 of the 2003 empowers TAEC to analyse radiation in food products and protect members of the public and environment against harmful effects of radiation. Radiation analysis is meant to control radiation to protect people from the effects of radiation, since there may be incidents of illicit trafficking of radioactive materials. Awareness was raised on radiation in the environment due to the fact that the country owns uranium mines so it is possible to have radioactive particles around. At a business clinic launched by Minister for Industries and Trade Innocent Bashungwa participants were told there was a possibility for the country’s products to be unsafe due to radioactive sources that emit ionizing radiation. TAEC has the mandate to provide regulatory and radiation protection services, coordinate, monitor and promote the environmentally-friendly use of nuclear science and technology in the country. It also works in accordance with International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) provisions that seek to promote the environmentally-friendly use of nuclear energy and deter its use for any military purposes, including nuclear weapons. In discharging its duties, it also adheres to requirements by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FA) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) in addition to laws of the land.