A campaign for reducing accidents and risks at workplaces has kicked off in Mwanza city, with Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) vowing to strengthen awareness among employers. Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC), John Mongella called upon employers to welcome the campaign dubbed: ‘Vision Zero’. He was represented by Nyamagana District Commissioner (DC), Dr Phillis Nyimbi at an event to launch the campaign. In a statement released to the media on Friday after introducing the campaign to owners of workplaces on Thursday, OSHA said the campaign aimed at reducing the number of accidents and diseases at workplaces to zero. Dr Nyimbi said if owners of workplaces are educated on how to implement the campaign, production would definitely go up and benefit the government and citizens. “Through this campaign and training, you (OSHA) have simplified my work, now things will go well even if I don’t inspect the workplaces to see whether they observe issues of safety and health. It’s my hope that the training will bring efficiency among workers in the region,” Dr Nyimbi stated. On Thursday, the OSHA trained members of the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) in Mwanza region. On the sidelines of the seminar, OSHA’s Research and Statistics Director, Joshua Matiko, noted that through the campaign, they would continue educating employers on the importance of investing in safety and health to their employees. “Through this campaign, we want to prove to employers that if they invest in issues related to safety and health to workers, they will not incur losses but record efficiency,” Mr Matiko explained. On his part, TCCIA Mwanza Regional chairman Dr Elibariki Mmari said they had welcomed the ‘Vision Zero’ campaign and made an assurance of full participation in training sessions for them to know their duties in maintaining safety and health at workplaces. Ms Jane Masanja, one of participants in the seminar from ONA FAMILY EYE CARE company, promised to apply what she had learnt during the training. OSHA manager for Lake Zone, Mjawa Mohamed, promised to continue providing education and conduct advocacy in all regions in the lake zone in order to achieve the objectives of the campaign. Vision Zero is a global campaign which is implemented in different ways in various countries, according to their local context.