THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has issued a rallying cry, calling on fans to flock the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday, to support the national Under-20 women team. The Under-20 side will face Uganda Under-20 team in the first leg, preliminary round to seek for a qualification into FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup 2020. TFF Media and communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo said the team is well prepared and ready for the clash, urging Tanzanians to show up and support their girls in large number on Sunday as their win is the country’s pride. The game is expected to be tough and interesting because both teams have good players and good goal scores, such as; Aisha Khamisi Masaka from Alliance Queens, who has scored 21 goals in 14 matches she has played with six hat tricks. Last month she was named the top scorer in CECAFA U-17 Women Challenge Cup with a total of 14 goals. In Ugandan Julieth Nakulenge, who was named as the FUFA Women player of the year after a stand out performance in the past year will be a big threat. She was the top scorer in Uganda’s successful COSAFA U17 Girls Championships campaign in Mauritius. Both players have shown a classic performance last week as Aisha Khamisi scored a hat trick and Julieth Nakulenge led her national team to a 2-0 win against Ethiopia as she scored and opening goal. It is obvious both teams will deliver a best class game as both have best defence line, midfielders and strikers. The second leg will be hosted in Uganda two weeks later after the Sunday’s game in either 31st January, 1st or 2nd February 2020. The preliminary round will exempt three women national teams, that are; Nigeria, Cameroon and Ghana. After the preliminary round, winners’ will progress to the next round as the continent seeks representatives for the world cup. Winner between Tanzania and Uganda will progress to the first round and face the winner of the match between Sierra Leone and Senegal. The first leg will be played on either March 20th, 21st or 22nd this year and the return leg with be played a week later.