ZANZIBAR’s peace stakeholders have principally agreed to work harmoniously in promoting and protecting the country’s peace and tranquility ahead of the general elections later this year. Religious leaders, politicians and law enforcers, at their one-day seminar here on Tuesday, concurred to have peace building top on their priorities. They strongly condemned politicians bent on proliferating unrest and fighting in the quest of their personal political ambitions. “Politicians are the key source of violence. And, I mean politicians from both the ruling and opposition parties because they are always after their personal interests,” charged CUF’s Women’s Wing Chairperson, Sifaa Ahmed Bakari. She prayed with Zanzibari’s to shun violence preaching leaders, saying in the absence of peace, women and children suffer most, with few, if any, of the politicians affected. “Let’s be careful especially in this election period, we should allow nobody to preach hostility in our midst, politics should unite instead of separating us,” pleaded Ms Bakari. ACT-Wazalendo’s Ame Omar Ame decried the persistent violence in the Spice Islands, asking the government to protect the country’s peace through just treatment of all citizens. “Zanzibari’s are polite and peace loving people, it’s only our leaders that are letting us down,” said Mr Ame, citing what he described as discriminatory issuance of the Zanzibar National identities as among issues breeding quarrels. Central District Cultural Officer, Makame Mwichande Mpate warned religious leaders against playing politics in the worship houses, describing the trend as highly dangerous. “Let’s separate politics from religion and even our politics should observe God’s teachings,” he pleaded. Many speakers pointed accusing fingers to the police but the Head of Community Policing and Head of In-Service Training in Urban Regional Police Commander’s (RPC), Office, Superintendent of Police Seif Daud Suleiman advised wananchi against arbitrarily blames to the law enforcers, saying peace building starts at family level. He accused the community of excessively embracing witchcraft beliefs, which breed many and outrageous crimes, saying the police are trying hard to execute their duties diligently. “We have the modern force, we do community policing and interact with citizens in efforts to enlighten them on voluntary obedience to the laws. But, we are ready, we exercise and we will squarely deal with any law defaulter,” he said, reminding Zanzibari’s that, “there is life after elections.” Searching for a Common Ground for Peace Project Manager, James Kaleza implored Zanzibari’s and Tanzanians in general to snub hatred politics and instead embrace development, saying under violent environment, nothing positive will be achieved. “It’s high time we admonished hatred politics in favour of development; Zanzibar is lucky to have strong political parties— both the ruling and opposition— but hatred politics is derailing our development,” Mr Kaleza, the seminar organizer, said. In his presentation on peace building, Mr Almas Muhammed Ali, underscored the need for special forums to avail conflicting parties with avenues for peaceful deliberations, saying there no single person, group of people or institution that has the responsibility to build and maintain the country’s peace. “Peace is a product of concerted efforts by all wananchi, and whoever is attempting to temper with our peace is our enemy,” said Mr Muhammed, noting that peace and development are interrelated and dependent.