THE Kasanga modern fish market that is located on the shore of Lake Tanganyika in Rukwa Region, has finally started operations after it remained idle for eight years since its completion. It was all smiles for the resident of Kalambo District after the reopening of the market, which had been not operating for the past eight years. The market was constructed in 2011 but was turned into white elephant after the cold room walls developed wide cracks few days after completion. On Thursday, the Kalambo District Executive Director (DED), Mr Msongela Palela told fishermen and other wananchi that the opening of the fish market was a big relief to fishermen and the public at large. He said the market will provide an opportunity for fishermen, traders and other stakeholders to participate fully in the business. The 802.4m/-worth market was officially opened by the then VicePresident, Dr Gharib Bilal in 2011. According to the DED, fishermen will now be able to sell fishes at good price since they now have a reliable meeting point with potential customers. “We are confident that this market is going to change our lives, fishermen will now be able to do businesses without problems, it is a great opportunity for the government and to an individual economy,” he noted. Some of the fishermen who spoke to ‘Daily News’ said for the past eight years, fishermen were forced to sell fishes at low prices because they had no option. Mr John Kanyuto said there are 12 fish processing factories along the shore of Lake Tanganyika but fishermen have been not benefiting from the business because they did not have modern market building for preserving fishes. Similar sentiments were echoed by dozens of joyful fishermen who said for eight years, owners of fish processing factories on the Zambian side had been providing them with fishing gears including boats , fuel, fishing nets on condition of supplying them with fresh fish at low prices. It is estimated that 70,000 people living in the villages closer to the modern market engage in fishing activities and annually produce 170,000 tons of fishes. According to the latest reports, the modern fish market at Kasanga Ward was built by a network of groups of farmers in Tanzania (MVIWATA) in collaboration with GET and Sumbawanga District Council before it was split to form Kalambo District council.