THE government has ruled out any immediate hike in fuel prices amid growing fears of potential rise in the global market in the wake of the escalating conflict between the United States and Iran in the Middle East. Oil prices are sensitive to geopolitical tension like the current one pitting the US and Iran, hence fuelling fears of higher pump prices in importing countries like Tanzania. However, the Acting Chief Executive Director of the Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (PBPA), Mr Erasto Simon, said there was no reason to panic at the meantime since the country has adequate stock which could last for at least the next 30 days. Early reports had shown that oil prices surged as Iran fired more than a dozen missiles at US bases in Iraq on Tuesday night, in what appears to be retaliation for the US assassination of Iranian military chief Qassem Soleimani last Friday. But the prices retreated later yesterday, a dramatic reversal from the initial spike caused by Iran’s missile strike. “If the tension persists, then there are chances for increased prices due to high insurance premiums to be charged on oil tankers shipping petroleum products through the Strait of Hormuz,” Mr Simon told the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview yesterday. “Ship owners may be compelled to increase transportation costs since they will have to pay higher insurance premiums for fear of attacks along the channel which is near Iran,” the PBPA boss explained. The Director of Petroleum at the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory (EWURA), Mr Gerald Maganga, shared similar opinion as he suggested that despite effects of geopolitics there was no likelihood of shortage of the precious liquid in the world market. “The most likely scenario would be higher pump prices which will be influenced either by increased production and transportation costs or just mere speculation of reduced production,” he told the ‘Daily News’ over the phone. Mr Maganga was of the view that some member countries of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) could boost their output against speculation of shortages. Investors are on high alert for any signs of a clash between the United States and Iran that threatens oil supplies in the Middle East. Crude prices retreated earlier this week on hopes that energy supplies won’t be impacted by the tensions. The Strait of Hormuz is a channel between the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman, which provides the only sea passage to the open ocean and is one of the world’s most strategically important choke points. Tanzania imports its oil mostly from the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia in addition to Qatar and Oman through the passage and hence as far as the prices of oil surge, it will not be spared if the situation in the Middle East escalates. The other alternative sources of Tanzania’s petroleum products include China, India and other oil-producing African countries. Available data indicate that a third of the world’s liquefied natural gas and almost 35 per cent of total global oil consumption passes through the strait, making it a highly important strategic location for international trade. A reliable source in oil marketing companies who preferred anonymity, commented that putting all factors aside, an increase of prices due to the crisis would be felt in Tanzania after two months from now. “The country has oil stock which can last for the next thirty days, and what is more, orders have already been placed for January and February. Some ships are discharging the oil while others are on the way,” the source explained. Tanzania’s average monthly demand for petrol, diesel, JET-A1 (jet oil) and kerosene procured through the bulk procurement system at the Dar es Salaam port stands at 270,000 metric tonnes. In addition, between 25,000 and 38,000 metric tonnes of petroleum products are imported through the Tanga port for supply in the northern regions.