TANZANIA and China enjoy cordial diplomatic relations for more than 50 years. The close ties, described as rock solid, enabled its people to intermingle through trade, culture, education and so on. The Daily News Reporter BERNARD LUGONGO interviewed a Chinese lecturer at the Confucius Institute at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Mr Li Xiaowei, who shares his experiences, excitement and commitment to contributing to more cultural exchange between the two countries. Question: In a nutshell, when did you come in Tanzania and for what purposes? Answer: In July 2016 it was my first time visiting Tanzania for doing academic research about how to build a harmonious labour relationship of Chinese Enterprises in Tanzania. I visited 12 Chinese Enterprises and 50 Tanzanian employees, trying to find a good way to solve labour disputes between Chinese employers and Tanzanian employees. Later in September 2017 started working with Confucius Institute at University of Dar es Salaam as a Chinese volunteer teacher, teaching Chinese language and held Chinese cultural activities, such as teach Chinese cuisine, songs and share the life style of Chinese people. Then in October 2018, I attended a Swahili international tourism expo with intent to promote Tanzania tourism. Since October 2019, I have been working for National College of Tourism (one of the teaching centre of Confucius Institute at University of Dar es Salaam) as a Chinese lecturer. I have been teaching Chinese language for stakeholders of tourism sector in Tanzania, considering upward trend of Chinese tourists visiting the country. Some of trainees of the Chinese language are tour guide. I was part of a team for writing a book for training tour guide Chinese language. This book is written in Chinese and Swahili and part of its content is to describe the national parks in Tanzania. After students have read the book, they can use Chinese language to introduce national parks to Chinese guests. QN: How do you assess capacity of Tanzanian students to understand Chinese language? ANS: Tanzanian students have a strong ability to learn Chinese, especially spoken Chinese. Beginners can understand between 150 and 200 Chinese vocabularies. They can understand and be proficient in using simple Chinese sentences to meet specific communication needs. QN: You have visited many National Parks in Tanzania. How can you describe the potential in promoting tourism? ANS: I visited Serengeti, Ngorongoro, Kilimanjaro, Tarangire, Manyara and Zanzibar To start with Serengeti, I know that there are more than two million herbivores and carnivores thrive on this land. The migration of millions of animals is the most spectacular sight in this savanna, here is a paradise for animals. I’ve seen the thrilling scenes of animals crossing the Masai Mara River. The Mara River reminds me of Darwin’s theory of evolution and the insignificance of human beings in the nature. We should have awe for nature. The sky in Serengeti is very beautiful. At night, looking at the stars in the vast grasslands, you will forget all your irritations. When I first visited the Ngorongoro Crater, I couldn’t believe that there was such a fascinating oasis on the African continent. There were grasslands, lakes and forests in the crater. Lions, Hippos, Elephants, Rhinos and more than 70 large animals are here .This is an independent ecosystem. Every year in the rainy season, the fascinating oasis is quiet, peaceful and it is the Eden of animals. According to legend, the Maasai people grazed along the crater, and the bells on the neck of the cow made a sound like “gorogoro”, and people called it Ngorongoro. The brave Maasai people bring mystery to the crater. They do not eat vegetables, eat beef and drink cow blood, the marriage custom is polygamy. The huge baobab trees, African elephants everywhere, and tent hotels built on baobab trees are the park’s biggest features. The park has a yearround Tarangire River that is the only source of water for animals during the dry season. You can find lions, elephants, giraffes, wildebeests, zebras, antelopes, and a lot of animals there. You can also see the migration of animals there, so people give Tarangire a special name called “Small Serengeti”. Lake Manyara National Park it is the best place to learn about the life and habits of birds. In addition, Lake Manyara is a saltwater lake where many flamingos thrive. Mount Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa. There are eight routes to climb Mt Kilimanjaro. The Marangu route is the easiest to climb, that is why people called it Coca-Cola route. Due to climate change and the environmental pollution, the snow at the peak of Kilimanjaro become less and less. However, if no effective measures are taken, the snow will likely disappear in the future. QN: China and Tanzania are in good relations for a long time. How is that beneficial? ANS: China-Tanzania friendly relations have a long history, especially since the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Tanzania in 1964. In recent years, more and more Chinese companies have invested in Tanzania, creating more job opportunities for Tanzania employees. At the same time, the market share of Chinese tourists in Tanzania’s tourism industry has increased year by year. In addition, many Tanzania students get government scholarships and Confucius Institute scholarships to learn Chinese language, Medical, Agriculture and Engineering technology in China. After returning to Tanzania, they use their knowledge to help Tanzania better develop. Therefore, China-Tanzania cooperation is beneficial for both countries. QN: What are your plans here in Tanzania? ANS: I will continue to work with Confucius Institute and launch a “Chinese + Tourism” course to train more Tanzanian tour guides who are proficient in Chinese language and culture. Through the cultural and tourism exchanges, the mutual understanding between the peoples of China and Tanzania will be enhanced. QN: Do you think teaching Chinese Language here in Tanzania is important for Tanzanians... why? ANS: I think Chinese Language teaching is very important for Tanzania. Language is the most important carrier of culture. By learning Chinese, not only facilitate communication, but also understand the essence of Chinese culture. At present, China and Tanzania are increasingly communicating in the fields of economy, trade, humanities education, tourism, agriculture and engineering technology. Learning Chinese is not only beneficial to the future development of students, but also to promote exchanges and mutual understanding between peoples in China and Tanzania. QN: Comparing to China, how do you see people of Tanzania? ANS: I think Tanzania people and Chinese people have common advantages in many aspects, such as warm hearted, friendly and peaceloving. In addition, I think Tanzanians respect and love nature very much, protecting the natural environment. Everyone here likes a leisurely, slow-paced lifestyle.