FINALLY, the eagerly awaited Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) machine for Bugando Lake Zone Referral Hospital is set for installation late next month, a move which will make residents who have been paying more for services in private hospitals to heave a sigh of relief. Before this, patients would travel a long distance to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) in Dar es Salaam for MRI, a medical imaging technique used in radiology to form pictures of the anatomy and the physiological processes of the body. MRI scanners use strong magnetic fields, magnetic field gradients and radio waves to generate images of body organs. Two years ago, Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu assured Lake Zone residents of providing the machine to the hospital. Acting Hospital Director, Dr Bahati Wajanga, said the construction of MRI building was complete. “We have already completed construction of the MRI building as the government had directed us to do so before the arrival of the machine. By the end of February the MRI will have arrived for installation,” Dr Wajanga noted. He, however, declined to tell the cost of the machine, noting that the government was in a better position to provide such details. He made a statement on Thursday when briefing a team of journalists and information officers from institutions under the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children. They were on a tour of the Lake Zone to explore improvements in health services offered by public hospitals as part of implementing ‘Tumeboresha Sekta ya Afya’ programme. The programme started early last year and this time has entered its phase three. Giving an overview of the developments made at the hospital in the past four years of President John Magufuli’s leadership, Dr Wajanga noted that the hospital had produced 17 types of intravenous fluids. “These types of fluids are not available in the market and here we sell them at half price comparing to the market price,” he said. On the other hand, the hospital manufactured oxygen for its uses and sell some of it. In a month it can produce 2,001 cylinders of oxygen and sell them at half price comparing to market price of 45,000/-. “The production of this medical gas has helped the hospital to save a lot of money,” he noted.