THE government has been commended for its firm decision to reject office chair leadership as it thwarts investors’ confidence. An upcoming investor who produces chicks and animal feed for up-coming farmers, entrepreneurs and wholesalers said the new official stand had given them more confidence to depend on the country’s investment policy. Speaking on Thursday, AKM Glitters Managing Directress, Elizabeth Swai said the country was lucky to have a government that rejected office chair leadership in the implementation of its agro-industrialisation agenda. She said the move would not only promote growth and economic advancement, but also woo local and foreign investors. “We are witnessing a new type of leadership in the government which is committed to visiting farms, industries and listening to what investors have to say in implementing the national agenda. This is important to reassure investors and it is significant for the country’s growth and economic progress,” Ms Swai. She hailed Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Investment), Angellah Kairuki for visiting the company’s hatcheries and feed production farms and plants. She said the minister’s visit gave them a platform to discuss challenges and see the actual investment and see the best option to move forward. “We are happy that we shared with her the challenges facing our operations and she promised to work on them,” she said. The managing directress said her firm was the only one with a permit to import parental chicken seeds (Kuroiler) from India and had the capacity to host over 30 poultry farming interns at a time. However, she told the minister that between 2017 and 2019 the company was forced to pay tax for importing parental chicken seeds which she said was against the national policy. The company, that became operational in 2016, has a parental seed (Kuroiler) farm at Madale, poultry feed farms in Mbezi and others in Bagamoyo and Mkuranga districts. The company works closely with the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (Sagcot) in the promotion of poultry farming and agri-businesses in Tanzania’s southern regions