THE hefty interest rates offered by the mushrooming Village Community Banks (VICOBA) is set to drop considerably in the wake of Bank of Tanzania’s move to register and license all microfinance service providers in the country. The Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) recently issued a public notice requiring microfinance businesses to comply with the law by registering and securing licence for their operations as prescribed. Among such businesses include receiving money by way of deposits or interest on deposits or borrowing and which is lent to members or clients; accepting savings and providing loans or other credit facilities to micro or small enterprises and low income households or individuals. Others are providing micro credit, micro-savings, micro- insurance, micro-leasing, micro-pension and microhousing finance; transfer and payment services, including digital microfinance services; providing financial education; and any other related service as may be prescribed in the regulations. In an exclusive interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, Microfinance Bank Bureau Supervision Manager at the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Mr Victor Tarimu, cited among major advantages of the move as to streamline interest rates which are intended to drop significantly. According to the manager, due to the growing number of VICOBA groups, there has been a growing trend of indecisive acts by some members escaping with collected or borrowed cash, while others have defaulted payment of the loans. “All in all, the initiative will bring comfort to the beneficiaries of VICOBA groups taking into consideration recovery of the money is quite alarming to the members of the groups and some individual moneylenders." “Some of the groups have gone as far as to confiscate material things like furniture, wardrobes among other housewares to recover the borrowed money,” said Mr Tarimu. Besides the licensing requirement, the Microfinance Act, 2018 regulations provides for capital and governance requirements; thus the government will be able to track the number of available groups and where they are located. Such database is going to make it easy when granting assistance like loans, capacity building among other opportunities. Mr Tarimu noted further that the regulations have been effective since November 2019, thus requiring all intended parties to comply within 12 months of the date of commencement of the Act. Based on the commencement date, microfinance businesses have less than 10 months to finalise the process or else there will be repercussions. Commenting on the effectiveness of the law, VICOBA Country President, Ms Devotha Likokola said the coming of the law signals a huge relief, adding they are ready to embrace its implementation. Ms Likokola said as pioneers of the law, it was their hopes that the law would not only benefit the service providers but also the consumers of the Vicoba services. “Since the process is being carried out by the local administrations, it will make it easier to track beneficiaries and defaulters of the loans from the street level,” said Ms Likokola.