TWO children, both aged three, have been brutally murdered, including a minor who was hacked and his body dismembered by his stepfather on New Year’s Day at Kitorelwa Village in Missenyi District, Kagera Region. Briefing reporters yesterday in Bukoba, Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revocatus Malimi said police were investigating a terrible incident involving the brutal murder of the threeyear old boy, identified as Caren Cripine. According to RPC Malimi, the tragic incident happened on New Year Day, naming the suspect as Leonard Kishenya (36), a resident of Missenyi District’s Katorelwa village. Giving an account on the terrible incident, the RPC said on New Year’s Eve, Kishenya and his wife, identified as Domina Andrew (30) celebrated by indulging in a drinking spree at a local pub. The couple returned home late at night but a fight ensured and Domina fled, leaving behind her child. The next morning, Domina returned home only to find the child, identified as Caren Cripine (3) hacked and dismembered but the suspect had vanished. She reported the matter to the village chairman who in turn informed the police and a massive manhunt was conducted. "The suspect who was arrested on Friday while hiding at a nearby village will be arraigned when investigations are completed," he said. Mr Malimi explained that murder-related incidents increased from 152 cases recorded during 2018 to 163 cases in 2019. Cases of rape, on the other hand, also slightly increased from 243 cases recorded during 2018 to 244 cases during 2019. He noted that about 41 people were killed from 37 fatal road accidents recorded during 2019, compared to 40 people killed from 14 fatal accidents recorded during 2018. He further elaborated that during 2019 about 905 aliens were nabbed including 769 Burundians, 72 Rwandese, 49 Ugandans and 15 Ethiopians. Some of them were arraigned while others were deported. Meanwhile, Petty Siyame reports from Rukwa Region that a girl child aged three from Mtakuja village in Kirando Ward along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District, Agnes Karaba died after being murdered by a young man suspected to be insane. Reports from the scene of the incident had it that the man had sprang on the minor and banged her head viciously on a trunk of a huge tree before he fled. The Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC) Mr. Justine Masajo told reporters here that the grisly incident occurred at Mtakuja village in Kirando Ward along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District at around 7:30 am.