A STUDENT with Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), Lumola Kahumbi on Friday sketched an account of how 12,500/-rescued him from languishing in the lock up at Oysterbay Police Station for being suspected of taking part in illegal demonstrations. He told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in the city that two policemen snatched from his pocket the said amount to secure his release, leaving him with only 200/-. “I had 12,700/-in my pocket, but police took 12,500/-. I had to walk to the institute, as the 200/- I had remained with was not enough to meet my daladala (commuter bus) fare,” Kahumbi said when testifying as a defence witness in the trial of nine senior officials of the political party Chadema, who are facing several sedition charges. Led by Advocate Peter Kibatala, the 13th witness explained that on February 16, 2016 in the evening, he went to Kinondoni to meet his aunt, who was residing a few metres from Studio Bus Stop. However, as he was disembarking from a “daladala” bus, he saw the police approaching the vehicle. According to him, armed police officers were in some vehicles and upon reaching the site, they started firing in the air, forcing the people around to start running in different directions. On the other hand, he testified, the police pursued some of them, including himself. The witness told the court further that he was arrested by the police near a shop selling beds and alongside others, they were forced onto vehicles and taken to Oysterbay Police Station. While there, he said he requested to go to the toilet for a call of nature. “Two police officers escorted me. Along the way, under a mango tree, one policeman asked me how much money I had. One of them took from my pocket 12,500/-leaving me with 200/- . They later told me to leave the place without looking back,” he testified. In the case, the accused persons include the party’s National Chairman Freeman Mbowe, then Secretary General, Vicent Mashinji , current Secretary General, John Mnyika, who was by then Deputy Secretary General (Mainland) and Salum Mwalimu, who is Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar). Others are Kawe Member of Parliament (MP) Halima Mdee and Bunda Urban lawmaker Ester Bulaya, Peter Msigwa, who is MP for Iringa Urban, John Heche, the MP for Tarime Rural and as well as the MP for Tarime Urban, Ester Matiko. They are charged with 13 counts of conspiracy to commit offences, unlawful assembly, rioting after proclamation, raising discontent and ill-will for unlawful purposes, sedition and inciting commission of offences. The charges are alleged to have been committed between February 1 and 16, 2018 in the city. The prosecution alleges that on February 16, 2018 along Kawawa Road at Mkwajuni area, being assembled with intent to carry out a common purpose, jointly and together, all accused persons conducted themselves in such a manner as to cause a fear of breach of peace. It is claimed further that on the same day and place, with more than 12 other persons not in court, having riotously assembled, in disobedience of proclamation given by a police officer, the accused persons failed to disperse and continued to take part in the riot. Thereby, according to the prosecution, the accused persons breached the peace and terrifying the public culminating in the death of National Institute of Transport (NIT) Student, Akwilina Akwiline Baftaa, and injury of two police officers, Police Constable Fikiri and Corporal Rahim Msangi. According to the prosecution, on the same day at Buibui grounds, while addressing Kinondoni residents at a the public meeting, Mbowe, Mdee and Heche made statements likely to raise discontent and promote feelings of ill-will amongst the inhabitants of the United Republic of Tanzania. The prosecution alleged further that Mbowe, in related offences, made seditious statements with the intention of bringing hatred and contempt to the citizens of the United Republic of Tanzania against the lawful authority of the government. It is alleged further that on the same day at Buibui grounds, Mbowe, Msigwa and Bulaya with other persons who are not in court, jointly incited the residents of Kinondoni District in the city to commit offences of unlawful assembly, going armed in public and rioting.