MINISTER for Industry and Trade, Innocent Bashungwa has directed the Weights and Measures Agency (WMA) to authenticate water meters, to ensure that water users get correct bills and enjoy services, something that will avoid complaints over false water bills. He gave the directive while speaking to members of the Parliamentary Committee for Industry, Trade and Environment in Dodoma, in a seminar organized by WMA. The minister said there were a lot of complaints by users regarding the effectiveness of water meters, and so it was important for the agency to address the issue, to ensure that there was value for money for water users on their bills. “Currently, the government is engaging in big water projects; so it is important to have right measures to ensure a win win situation between the agency and water users and we must end those complaints and make sure people are happy with the services,” Mr Bashungwa said. The minister commended WMA for a job well done and directed them to continue with public education, adding that through public education, citizens will be aware of proper measures. He also directed WMA to work on different challenges posed by members of parliament and go to various regions to educate the public on how they can benefit from correct measures. In his presentation before the committee, WMA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr Ludovick Manege, said his agency had sent 49 members of its staff to short and long courses inside and outside the country in order to sharpen their skills. He said by using its internal resources, WMA bought working tools that include 26 computers. Dr Ludovick said WMA had also constructed a unique center that is used for measuring cars that are used for carrying diesel and petroleum products to Misugusugu in Coast Region. He said currently, the center has the capacity to measure more than 60 cars per day compared to the old center which had capacity to measure only eight cars. He said WMA continues to verify measures, taking into consideration professionalism and to expand services so as to tackle different challenges. The CEO mentioned other challenges as the increase of local and foreign investors which are outcomes of a conducive investment climate and the decrease on obstacles of doing business. On his part, the committee’s chairperson, Suleiman Sadiq, congratulated WMA for its excellent performance, adding that they should not relax but pull up their socks, to tackle challenges that face the community. He said WMA should make follow ups of meters at petrol stations, water meters and provide public education to farmers, especially cashew nut and cotton growers, to make sure that they benefit from their work and help the country move to middle income country status.