HEALTH Minister, Ms Ummy Mwalimu has directed the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) management to link up the ultramodern health facility with the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) in telemedicine order to expand the scope of health service provision in the country. Telemedicine is the distribution of health-related services and information via electronic information and telecommunication technologies. It allows health care professionals to evaluate, diagnose and treat patients at a distance using telecommunications technology. The minister issued the directive here on Friday when she paid an official visit to the Central Zone Referral Hospital, noting that the government would link up all district hospitals across the country with MNH. “So far, at least seven public hospitals have been linked up with MNH in telemedicine system in order to facilitate health service provision,” said the minister. Ms Mwalimu cited the public health facilities with telemedicine system as Lindi Regional Referral Hospital, Morogoro Regional Referral Hospital, Morogoro Regional Referral Hospital. Nachingwea District Hospital, Nyangao District Designated Hospital, Kilosa District Hospital, Mvomero District Hospital and Turiani Hospital in Morogoro. She commended the BMH for effective health services provision and that the 400-bed hospital had made a significant contribution to improve health services in the country since its establishment four years ago. Acting Executive Director of the Hospital, Dr Kessy Shija said the hospital had introduced chemotherapy for cancer patients, saying the medical service would help to reduce their number from central zone and neighbouring regions. He said at least 76,024 patients received medical treatment at the BMH for the past six months, saying 61,525 patients attended at the hospital’s Outpatient Department (OPD) and 14,499 were attended at the Internal Patient Department (IDP). Dr Shija expressed gratitude to the Health Ministry for its efforts to ensure BMH attains its goals to become a facility that offers specialized and super specialized services.