IT was good news for Young Africans fans on Thursday, this week, following the arrival of their new Belgian coach, Luc Eymael, who went straight to Zanzibar to take care of his new side. Eymael had also the golden opportunity of seeing his new team, Young Africans in action against Mtibwa Sugar on Thursday night in the ongoing Mapinduzi Cup. For those who may not know the genesis of this soccer tournament called Mapinduzi Cup, this is a tournament that was established several years ago to mark the Zanzibar revolution which was carried out on January 12th 1964. The bloody revolution was carried out against the Arab oligarchy that had ruled the isles for many years. Therefore, to honour those who had died in the course of carrying out the noble revolution, the soccer tournament was organised. The arrival of the Belgian coach is certainly a fillip not only for Young Africans but also for the game in this country. It means Young Africans will now provide their arch soccer rivals, Simba with more challenges when it comes to the beautiful game. But Eymael need to know that much as he has had ten years of experience coaching different African countries, but Tanzania and Young Africans in particular, have different soccer challenges. The challenges are such that if the Belgian is not careful, he could end up leaving the country without accomplishing what he said on his arrival that he was here to accomplish it. Problem number one is that the bulk of Tanzania soccer players are produced in the streets. Such players lack basics in the game. In fact, it is the same players who ultimately fail to understand coaches like Luc Eymael for the simple reason that their street football is incompatible with the modern game. The point is, if Eymael wants to succeed where others have failed, he needs to tell his new employers the beauty of establishing a soccer academy as part of the club’s edifice. He can for instance, talk to former Young Africans players like Juma Pondamali who can explain to him how a Romanian coach who is presently an American citizen, Professor Victor Stanculescus, had left an indelible mark both on Young Africans and Tanzanian soccer in general after staying in the country for less than four years. Juma Pondamali, who was one of Professor Victor’s products, could explain to him what the Romanian had done to turn over twenty plus youth into not only into top flight players, but also the most exciting players this country has ever seen. Eymael needs to talk his new employers into establishing a soccer academy, while he is still around, if he wants to be remembered for many years to come. Tanzanian soccer clubs don’t like to invest in the game. They always want quick fixes and the result is continuous failure. I’m quite sure Luc must have had a tete a tete with his fellow Belgian, the former Simba tactician. Eymael will sooner than later learn that whatever the former Simba coach told him is not new to Tanzanian clubs, hence the dire need for him to do things differently. And, one of avoiding such problems he needs to fight for the establishment of soccer academy of sort where he could work before turning to the senior team from 3pm onwards. Personally, I’m very happy with what the Young Africans management has done, bringing this coach. For Eymael’s arrival means that Simba’s chief coach will be forced to get his boys on their toes in order to avoid imminent defeat from their arch soccer rivals. Tanzania badly needs soccer competition in order to progress. And clubs with local coaches like Mtibwa Sugar also need to work extremely hard in order to provide competitiveness in the league. With the presence of a few foreign coaches from Europe, clubs with local coaches would pick a leaf or two from clubs which are being trained by European coaches. And as they always say, competition is the key to soccer development and growth. Soccer clubs cannot develop if there is massive lack of competition. That is why anyone in his right senses would praise to the hilt the arrival in the country on Wednesday of the Young Africans Belgian tactician. I wish him all the best.. Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through: tagalileattilio@ yahoo.co.uk 0754279655