AN INSTALLATION of nine specialised laboratory apparatuses at the Government Chemist Laboratory Authority (GCLA) has significantly reduced the time used for sample testing and dissemination of results. Chief Government Chemist, Dr Fidelice Mafumiko, stated on Monday in Dar es Salaam that the authority was now capable of conducting DNA test and give results within a day from the previous 21-day time frame. He said the 6.5bn/- worth laboratory apparatuses, purchased under the current regime, has massively improved the authority’s service deliveryand commended the government for taking efforts to improve the country’s health sector. The government has continuously improved budget funding for the ministry of health, making it one of the best performing social service sectors under President John Magufuli’s presidency. “We are glad that the government has made huge investments in infrastructure -- ranging from buildings to laboratory equipment that have addedefficiency to the authority,” said Dr Mafumiko when briefing a team of government information officers and journalists. “We can now test and have results even in a day while in the past it took over 21 days,” he added. Under their campaign dubbed: ‘Tumeboresha Afya’, information officers from institutions under the auspices of the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, were on a tour to record successes attained by the GCLA. Mr Sabanitho Mtega, GCLA Director of Products and Environment Analysis, mentioned some of the purchased laboratory facilities as liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LCMS/ MS), gas chromatography– mass spectrometry (GC-MS), genetic analyser, gas analyser, total fat analyser and fiber analyser. “With modern facilities, the testing has been simplified and speeded up,” GCLA Director for Forensic Science and DNA Services, Mr David Elias stressed . He noted that his department has been receiving samples from different stakeholders, mainly police, court, community development departments. Meanwhile, Dr Mafumiko underscored the significance of education and awareness, saying the authority has been educating its stakeholders and the public on legal issues regarding chemicals handling, storage, importation and transportation. “We have witnessed a good response from people who willingly adhere to legal procedures governing the importation and use of chemicals upon being educated,” he said. Awareness creation has further led to the increased number of people registering with the GCLA looking to venture into either importation, transportation or selling of chemicals. Data indicate that the number of registered stakeholders has by last December reached 11,598 up from 2644 in 2016