IT is a sorry state of affairs for Bakari Ramadhan, a bodaboda rider who has been admitted to Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) for the past three weeks. Despite battling with injuries sustained from a road crash, Bakari has no idea how he will foot his medical bills once he is declared fit for release from hospital. The 24-year old man from Kilosa District in Morogoro Region is not insured in any way. He depends on the institute’s hospitality, where he receives medical treatment and free meals provided by the hospital every day. His life has been plunged into uncertainty that will most likely trap him in the vicious cycle of poverty after being hit by a speeding vehicle at Mbagala area in Dar es Salaam, while riding a motorcycle to Mtoni-Mtongani to pick a passenger. “I was hit while trying to avoid a speeding vehicle that was coming ahead of me. I, however, failed to get out of the road on time, resulting in the crash that saw me being injured on the hand and head,” the visibly disappointed Bakari says, adding that the vehicle left him for dead. Before being admitted to the national referral hospital (MOI), Bakari, a father of three children, was first rushed to Temeke Regional Hospital and due to the severity of his injuries, he was transferred to MOI where most road traffic crash victims, including bodaboda victims end up on emergency bases or for definitive treatment. This is so because MOI offers the best Orthopaedic and Trauma services in the country. Abandoned by loved ones “I was admitted here and underwent hand surgery,” he said, before pouring out his heart that, no relative or a friend visits him. He feels abandoned and all he wishes for is God’s grace to quickly recover and get a clean bill of health. “I have no one to pay my bills; my family depends on me and all I’m wishing for is a quick recovery and if possible, the hospital sets me free so that I will pay the bills after I go back to work. “I earn between 20 000/- and 30 000/- per week and I have no other means of generating income. Working as a bodaboda rider is the only form of employment I have in town,” he said while wiping away tears from his face. A tip of an iceberg Bakari’s case is just but a tip of an iceberg as many bodaboda riders are entangled in the same quagmire. Their lives immediately become a living hell once they get involved in a crash, especially that which leaves them bedridden. The lack of insurance, especially health insurance has been a thorn in the flesh for both the government and the riders’ families as their meager finances are siphoned by medical bills, leaving them broke more than a church mouse. It is unfortunate that despite developing countries, including Tanzania, using motorcycles as a means of public transport and as a form of employment for youth, the welfare of these riders is at stake. Just like Bakari, there are thousands of bodaboda riders, mostly youths, in Dar es Salaam and in the country as a whole, who ply the roads without personal protection. According to the 2018 Road Traffic Injuries Report by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death for children and young adults aged 5-29 years. A research conducted by MOI Orthopaedic Specialist, Dr Bryson Mcharo reveals that the rate of injury for people in lower income groups was 2.5 times greater than those in higher socioeconomic groups. The majority of motorcycle crash injury victims are self-employed. Titled ‘Motorcycle Crash: Injuries Pattern and Associated Factors among Patients Treated at Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI),’ the research indicates that in the year 2010, motorcycle crash injuries were responsible for 30.8 per cent of all road traffic injuries treated at the emergency department. The road traffic crash injuries were 56 per cent of all patients admitted to Muhimbili National Hospital, with motor vehicle traffic crash being the leading cause of fatal injuries accounting for 41 per cent of all deaths. According to Traffic Police Report 2018 on Road Safety and road crashes related matters, 3,719 motorcycle riders were injured in 4,621 motorcycle road crashes that occurred between 2016- 2018. Siphoning meager family resources The report says Road traffic injuries cause considerable economic losses to individuals, their families, and to nations as a whole. These losses arise from the cost of treatment as well as lost productivity for those killed or disabled by their injuries, and for family members who need to take time off work or school to care for the injured. In an interview with one Maria Swai, who is currently taking care of her husband admitted to MOI after he escaped death by a whisker in a road crash while riding a motorcycle to eke a living. “It is very hectic as I have to wake up early in the morning every day to check upon him, and the same goes for lunch and in the evening when I have to bring him his dinner. I commute a lot hence I fail to engage in any productive activity,” the visibly distressed Mary says. The family has been plunged into uncertainty as Maria’s husband, Mr Swai (36), is the breadwinner, but now that he is helplessly lying on a hospital bed, with no hope of settling the medical expenses, the family’s welfare is compromised. According to Maria, her husband has no health insurance, savings or any other personal protection that would cover his medical expenses. Burdening the government In an interview with the ‘Daily News,’ an orthopaedic and trauma specialist at the institute (MOI), Dr Kennedy Nchimbi, said only four out of 60 bodaboda road crash victims reporting to the hospital per month possess health insurances. “Most of them (mostly riders) who come here (MOI) seeking treatment have no health insurance or any plans on how to settle their medical bills,” says Dr Nchimbi. To come to the rescue of genuine cases of such patients, he said the hospital has a system that supports the uninsured and those who are poor, to receive treatment required before being presented with medical bills, whereby the cost is shared between the patient and the government. “The government pays a certain amount of medical expenses and the rest is paid by the patient,” he said, adding that those who cannot contribute medical expenses under cost-sharing arrangement are referred to the social welfare for help. He said that motorcycle crash victims reporting to the hospital surpass the number of other patients, when it comes to accessing treatment under the medical expenses cost-sharing arrangement. The MOI Welfare and Public Relations Manager, Mr Juma Almasi, said 60 per cent of patients involved in accidents including road traffic crashes are treated under the institute’s (MOI) social welfare bills. Mr Almasi said such patients, including motorcycle riders, have their treatment costs catered for by the social welfare under the country’s exemption policy. And, those who are treated under the social welfare plan are those who report to MOI on emergency cases, without a relative and those who fail to cover the bills after treatment. Mr Almasi said the social welfare pays an average amount of 500, 000/- per patient for those referred to the department. However, the amount increases if the patient requires further treatment including operations. Free meals – breaking new ground “Apart from treatment, motorcycle crash victims are provided with free meals… so the government spends money providing meals and medical expenses,” he said, pointing the need for personal health protection for all motorcyclists as the best solution to help cut down medical expenses. “And, this happens only in Tanzania where patients are given free meals. In other countries such as Kenya and Uganda, patients are not given meals by the hospital,” he said, reiterating that the resources spent on motorcycle road victims are enormous. He went on to emphasise the need to encourage and promote use of personal health insurance for all motorcycle riders, to cut costs the government spends on motorcycle road crash victims’ medical expenses. It is estimated that 3.4 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Products is lost as a result of Road Traffic crashes in Tanzania. According to WHO, Road traffic crashes cost most countries 3 per cent of their gross domestic product. Low insurance uptake The Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) told the ‘Daily News’ that it has registered many companies that provide insurance or medical cover, that include personal protection for bodaboda riders. TIRA Communications Officer, Phostine Oyuke went on to single out GA Insurance Tanzania Limited as one of the companies offering insurances on medical cover for motorcycle riders. An Insurance Officer with GA Insurance Company, MR Gerald Kilimo, said that apart from motorcycle insurance covers, the company offers personal insurance against accidents. Mr Kilimo said that personal insurance against accidents covers expenses upon death, permanent disability, temporary or total disability and medical expenses of motorcycle riders and any other person involved in accidents. He said that the cost for personal cover against accidents on all the four areas ranges between 8,000/- to 10,000/- per year. “Those getting personal insurance against accidents are required to pay a small amount of money. For instance on death cover, the insured person pays 10,000/- per year,” he said. According to Mr Kilimo, in case the insured person dies in a road crash, his or her relatives can be given 10m/- as condolences. However, despite the increasing number of bodaboda riders in Tanzania, the company has registered a small number of them on personal insurances. “The number of motorcyclists seeking personal insurance from our company per year is below 20,” he said, adding lack of public awareness about the importance of personal protection was a major setback in enabling motorcycle riders to acquire them. However, TIRA in collaboration with insurance companies conducts public awareness campaigns for bodaboda riders each year, on the need for them to acquire insurance to protect their lives. Legal inadequacies The National Motor Vehicle Insurance Act 169 Section 4 states that third party insurance for a motor vehicle provides protection against loss in the event of an accident, providing compensation for injuries sustained to anyone involved in a crash involving an insured vehicle. The Head of Legal Department at the Traffic Headquarters, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Deus Sokoni, said the compulsory third party does not cover personal protection for drivers. “The same applies to motorcycle riders; they are not covered in motorcycle insurances whenever they are involved in a road crash,” he said. A road safety stakeholder, Mr Henry Bantu says imposing mandatory laws on personal health insurance would be the best solution to enable motorcycle riders to access medical treatment, without hustles. “The bulky of road crash victims are youth, especially motorcycle riders who come from poor households. So, mandatory laws on personal insurance for motorcycle riders will help to save government funds used for medical treatment,” he said. WHO says in its report that road traffic injuries can be prevented by governments taking action to address road safety in a holistic manner. Such actions require involvement from multiple sectors such as transport, police, health, education and actions that address the safety of roads, vehicles and road users. Effective interventions include designing safer infrastructure and incorporating road safety features into landuse and transport planning, improving the safety features of vehicles, improving postcrash care for victims of road crashes, setting and enforcing laws relating to key risks and raising public awareness. Light at the end of dark tunnel The government recently announced plans to set rules, which will direct every motorcycle operator/rider to have health insurance, before acquiring a driver’s licence. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu, said that her Ministry and that of Home Affairs are jointly working on an initiative that will see all the motorcycle operators and riders having health insurances. Tanzania Orthopaedic Association (TOA) also suggested and proposed a plan that would see all owners of motor vehicles and motorcycles charged some money under their motor vehicle insurances that can be directed to hospitals handling emergency cases for road crash victims. The money, according to TOA, would help in recovering costs that the government and other health institutions spend on road crash victims who fail to pay their medical expenses after treatment. A stitch in time saves nine With the government forking out money that could be used for other developmental purposes on treating road crash victims, especially those from Bodaboda mishaps, it is high time regulations are put in place to make sure that every motorcyclist is insured to save taxpayers’ money. On the other hand, these important health covers will help to economically stabilise families, who are in most cases left disoriented and in dire straits once their bread winner is incapacitated by a road crash. It is therefore, imperative for the responsible stakeholders and the powers to note that a stitch in time saves nine.