SEVEN-YEAR-OLD Omar Kombo is happy to join school, an opportunity also to mix and play with his age mates. He had been kept indoor since at the age of two because of blindness. His parents had the perception that blindness is inability to get education. “I enjoy going to school,” says Kombo, who is among 36 blind children identified in some villages and helped to join school under the inclusive education project. Community leaders -- officially known as Shehas -- parent clubs, activists, and children were involved in identifying the hidden children aged 4 and 14 years. Thanks to MyRight organization for funding the project which started last April in Wete, Unguja North A, and Unguja Central where the Zanzibar National Association of the Blind (ZANAB ) and Albinism Association of Zanzibar are jointly implementing the project to promote the rights of children with disability. The ZANAB and Albino Association, Jumuiya ya Watu wenye Ualbino (JWUZ) project focus on searching or identifying children with blindness or low vision in the specified areas so that they can have better health and be included in school. The Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) recognizes the human rights of all children, including those with disabilities. The Convention contains a specific article recognizing and promoting the rights of children with disabilities, including right to education. Human Rights activist and lawyer Juma Thomas says Tanzania has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and a number of other international, regional and national agreements and that Tanzania has favourable legislation concerning disabilities. But there is a great deal that needs to be done or improved by the government and the society as a whole in terms of implementing and complying with conventions and laws. UNICEF says children with disabilities and their families constantly experience barriers to the enjoyment of their basic human rights and to their inclusion in society. It says their abilities are overlooked, their capacities are underestimated and their needs are given low priority. Yet, the barriers they face are more frequently as a result of the environment in which they live than as a result of their impairment. While the situation for these children is changing for the better, there are still severe gaps. Despite on-going calls to parents and the public at large to promote the rights of children, they still hide and deny them education. It is probably due to that fact that MyRight organization is supporting the project to ensure all children with visual impairment and low vision are enrolled in schools through a programme of inclusive education. Analysts argue that it is important to understand that inclusive is not as a philosophy or educational approach exclusively for children with disabilities, but as an approach that is fundamental to achieving the right to education for children from all marginalised groups. According to the project coordinator from ZANAB Adili Mohamed, awareness about the importance of education and good health to children is still required as many parents have the perception that blindness or disability is inability to do anything. “We are asking people to change their attitude on children with disability so that they are taken to school and engage in all activities,” says Mohamed. “This work of advocacy in remote areas isn’t easy. We need money for the committed people to visit the areas to educate parents and the public to accept to take their disabled children to school,” he says. He says about 28m/- is allocated each year to finance the project by MyRight. Abdalla Aboud is one of the children who helped to identify hidden disabled children who are out of school. A community leader in Unguja Central district Fatma Hassan says everyone has a role to play in safeguarding children and persuading parents to consider the importance of education for their children. ZANAB ’s Mohamed says that the project has also helped to establish a clinic for the albino, where they go for screening. “We thank MyRight organisation for purchasing equipment used in the albinism clinic at Mnazi Mmoja." At least, between one and six children visit the clinic on a weekly basis for screening. Having the albinism clinic has also helped to draw up proposals for the Zanzibar government to start purchasing sunscreen lotion. Through ZANAB ’s advocacy the government has been supporting the development of the disabled. MyRight is a Swedish disability rights movement’s umbrella organisation for international development. It is an independent aid organisation that works to ensure that persons with disabilities are better able to access their rights. The development work is driven as a partnership between Swedish disability organisations and their equivalents in MyRight’s partner countries B olivia, Nicaragua, Rwanda, Tanzania, Bosnia- Herzegovina, Nepal and Sri Lanka. MyRight supports projects and programmes that help to make the disability organisations in the partner countries stronger, more democratic and able to participate in social development. All MyRight’s activities take a rights perspective and are rooted in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in 2006. According to the Convention, it is not the individual who should have to adapt to the existing society – it is up to society to change so that it is more inclusive. Zanzibar Minister of State Mohamed Aboud Mohamed says that sustainable development requires the inclusion of everyone in the 2030 Agenda.. In September 2015, the General Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that includes the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).