PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday challenged investors in the tourism sector to work closely with all domestic and international stakeholders to open up more business opportunities in the country. The premier reiterated the government’s determination to create and sustain a conducive environment for investors, imploring more prospective investors—Tanzanians in particular— to grab the available opportunities. He directed all agencies administering the sector to work strategically in promoting the country’s tourist attractions internationally, citing the publication and distribution of special journals with appropriate information on tourism sector to potential visitors. Laying the foundation stone for the imposing multibillion four-star Golden Tulip Airport Zanzibar Hotel at Kisauni area, the premier said the country’s tourism sector is growing at an impressive rate, which demands similar growth in construction of tourist hotels. “The presence of this kind of hotels is inevitable for the country’s vibrant tourism sector,” said Mr Majaliwa, stressing the establishment of special shops for the sale of cultural products to tourists at the hotel. He attributed the rapid growth of tourism sector to the country’s peace and tranquility, imploring all Tanzanians to work hard to safeguard the existing peace and political stability. “Security of the country is the responsibility of all citizens; let every one of us play their part,” said the premier, challenging particularly Tanzanians to invest in the tourism sector that accounts for 27 per cent of Zanzibar’s GDP and over 80 per cent of foreign currency earnings. Finance and Planning Minister Mohammed Ramia Abdiwawa said Zanzibar still had a lot of investment opportunities and invited potential domestic and international investors to invest. Royal Group of Companies Chief Executive Officer Hassan Mohammed Raza whose firm has invested 8.5 million US dollars (about 20bn/-) in the hotel said the construction works started in February last year and are scheduled for completion in September this year. He said the 60-room hotel will have three conference halls with 45, 200 and 600-person capacity. Zanzibar tourism sector is reportedly growing at an unprecedented speed, with 520,809 tourists visiting the Islands in 2018, two years ahead of the 2020 target to attract 500,000 tourists. The government’s investment of 530bn/- in airport refurbishment has also played a critical role in improving airport services and attracting more travellers. Zanzibar International Airport handled a record 1.2 million passengers in 2018.