A petty trader residing at PasiansiNyamanoro in Mwanza City, Peru Robert Makoye (38), alias Kimaro, appeared in the Sumbawanga District Magistrate’s Court over the weekend over pretending to be a senior state attorney. The impersonation, subsequently enabled him to obtain over 1m/-by false pretense from a senior civil servant. Makoye allegedly committed the crime by introducing himself as Kimario, and that he had been sent by Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Mr Biswalo Mganga to deal with cases related to economic sabotage and organised crime in Rukwa Region. The suspect also attempted to con a magistrate based in Kalambo District over 500,000/-, by saying that would make arrangements to have him transferred him to the World Bank Unit that is funding magistrate courts across the country. The State Attorney-cumRukwa Regional Prosecutor, Mr Saraji Iboru, disclosed made the disclosure during a press briefing session held here, accompanied by State Attorneys Ms Irene Mabeza and Mr John Kabengula. He also explained how the man committed the crimes in Rukwa and Tabora regions. Narrating how the man committed the crime Mr Iboru said that Makoye arrived in Sumbawanga on November 11, last year and checked into Maswalo Guest House in Sumbawanga Town. “Between December 1 and, 3 last year Makoye went to Matai township in Kalambo District and met with senior civil servants, including DAS, OCD, magistrates from district and primary courts and Tanroads staff and introduced himself to them as a Senior State Attorney sent by DPP to work on cases related to economic sabotage and organised crimes in Rukwa Region”. In fact in the DPP’s office there is a state attorney by the second name of Kimario,” he added. He further explained while in the town he went to the police canteen were several police officers were recreating. He ordered that a goat be slaughtered and roasted and ordered six crates of beers on which they feasted. He settled the bills after introducing himself to them as a Senior State Attorney from the DPP’s office. That on December 4, last year, Mr Iboru was tipped off by law abiding citizens on the presence of a fake judiciary officer in Sumbawanga Town. “I alerted state organs over the matter, including the Regional Crimes Officer; t was further disclosed that the man was driving Toyota Corolla with registration numbers T370 DAJ property of engineer Robert Lwene after being lured by the suspect, “ he added. Mr Iboru further noted that law enforcers swiftly arrived at the guest house in bid to arrest him but he was absent and they were told he had gone while riding a motorbike. The vehicle he was using was found parked outside the guest house with keys inside it. It further resurfaced that the man had gone to Tabora via Katavi Region. “While in Tabora, the suspect went to Igunga District, where he deceived wananchi that he was a senior state attorney inspecting magistrates’ courts, and ordered farmers and business people to give him bags of rice, for which the central government would refund them. Suspicious wananchi alerted police officers on the matter and since his photos were displayed at all police stations across the country, he was subsequently arrested and returned to Sumbawanga,” he added. According to Mr Iboru, the suspect appeared in the Sumbawanga District Magistrate’s Court on January 23, and was not allow to enter any plea as the case will be tried at the High Court of Tanzania, Sumbawanga Zone. Among other charges Makoye is facing charges of economic sabotage and organised crime. He has been detained until February 6, this year when his case will come up for mention.