THE prosecution has asked for more time to complete investigations into the trial of six people, including businessman Marijani Abubakar, alias Papaa Msofe, charged with leading organised crime, money laundering and illegally obtaining 900m/- from foreigners in a mineral deal. State Attorney Elia Athanas, for the prosecution, told Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Monday that he had no official information on the case’s file and, thus, needed more time to find out the status of investigations. “Under the circumstances, we request for another mention date,” the trial attorney submitted. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the case to February 10, 2020. Other accused persons in the trial are Advocate Mwesigwa Mhingo, Wencelaus Mtui, Fadhil Mganga and Emmanuel Gang’ai, who are all businessmen and Josephinie Haule, a businesswoman. The prosecution alleges that on diverse dates between December 2018 and September 2019, jointly and together, all accused persons with others not in court intentionally organised a criminal racket. It is alleged that within the same period, with intent to defraud, all accused persons obtained 300,000 US dollars, equivalent to 690m/- from Hubert Paschal Jean Camille, a French national by falsely pretending that they would sell him 200kg of gold and export them to Portugal, while it was false. The court heard that within the same period of December 2018 and September 2019 in the city, they allegedly acquired the 300,000 US dollars from Camille, while knowing that the said amount was proceeds of predicate offence of obtaining money by false pretences. It is claimed that within the same period in Dar es Salaam, by false pretenses and with intent to defraud, all accused persons obtained 110,000 US dollars, equivalent to 253m/- from John Mahsson, a Swedish national. According to the prosecution, Msoffe, Mhingo, Mtui, Mganga, Haule and Gang’ai pretended that they would sell to Mahsson 20kg of gold and export the same to Portugal, which to their knowledge was false.