DAR ES SALAAM is planning to widen and deepen its entrance channel at Kigamboni, a move that would take the port’s performance to a new level once accomplished. The Port has already floated a tender for the expansion of the channel, through which cargo ships enter Dar es Salaam terminal from the outer anchorage. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe revealed about the expansion plan during the opening of the two-day 23rd Intermodal Africa conference. According to the minister, the government has secured funds from the World Bank (WB) for the project which is an integral part of the Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway improvement project. However, the minister could not divulge further information on the funds for fear of compromising tendering procedures. Eng Kamwelwe said the major objective of widening and deepening the entrance channel was to facilitate the passage of mega cargo ships following the expansion and dredging of births at Dar es Salaam port. “The main task at the entrance channel will involve dredging its depth to reach between 15 and 16 metres. This will enable mega ships of up to 300 metres in length to pass through it and dock at Dar es Salaam terminal to offload and load cargo,” the minister said. Dr Kamwelwe added that currently, Dar es Salaam Port receives mega cargo ships of up to 260 but it was in the interest of the government to receive bigger vessels with the capacity to carry between 5,000 and 10,000 containers. Last September, the Dar es Salaam Port received Grand Duke of Panama ship, measuring 200 metres long, with eight storeys and the capacity to accommodate 6,000 vehicles at a time. In its strategy to attract local and international traders to use Tanzania’s ports, the government took an affirmative action of improving various transport corridors by linking marine, railway and road transport. On marine transport, the government through TPA has invested billions of shillings in expanding all its ports in all water bodies- Indian Ocean, Lake Tanganyika and Lake Nyasa. Dar es Salaam Port, which is a principal terminal, has had its several berths expanded and their depth dredged to accommodate mega ships. The expansion work on some berths is still on. According to the minister, ship turn around at the terminal is now increasing day by day. To be able to move cargo with ease from ports in Tanzania to the land-linked nations, the government is currently building Standard Gauge Railway (SRG), including rehabilitating its central metre-gauge railway line. The Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) is also vital for hauling cargo from Dar es Salaam to the Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries. During the event on Wednesday, Eng Kamwelwe insisted on the government’s plan to build a railway line from Mtwara to Mbamba Bay through Mchuchuma and Liganga areas. Speaking on the Intermodal Africa Conference, Mr Kamwele said it was the second time Tanzania played host to such an important world meeting of marine transport stakeholders. Tanzania hosted the conference for the first time in 2005. He said given the peaceful nature of the country which is supported by efforts being made by the fifth government in improving marine transport, stakeholders through their organisation known as TT Club made the decision to bring the conference once again back to Tanzania.