ONE advantage of being a very young human creature is that you don’t, to use a crude expression, “give a damn” about what older fellow human creatures think or feel about you, when you do funny, and in some cases unacceptable things. As a young boy aged, say, three blessed years (as if some years are un-blessed or cursed) you may play in a heavily populated residential settlement with all your natural resources (I guess you know which these are) fully exposed. You wouldn’t do what in somewhat crude language is known as “giving a damn” about the outlook, because at that age, nakedness isn’t perceived as either a sin or a mistake. In some cases, being “cloth-less” (sounds more diplomatic than nakedness) is an advantage in situations such as when you are fleeing from a playmate that you had “baptized” as a goat chases you. If you had been wearing a shirt, he would catch you easily and do something nasty such as spitting into your non-blessed face. He would do so to teach you, not an unforgettable lesson, but which you would forget after an unnecessarily long time. But once, as a boy, you gain gradual promotion, by way of not necessarily pleasant pieces of hair beginning to host themselves beneath your chin rent-free, and others crowding themselves above the upper lip, and a few naughty ones invade the nostrils, you realize that you must begin to behave as a civilized creature. I am sure that, if a fully naked (natural full suit fashion) 40-yearold man were to run around in circles in a village, three-quarters of the people would run towards God-knows-where, screaming as piercingly noisy ambulance sirens. They would be strongly suspecting and scared, that the drama was a sure signal that the end of the world was approaching. They would wish that the Almighty Creator programmes their compatriot into stopping to imagine that he had become a gorilla, and re-engineer himself back to “human being-ness”. Things would be more critical if the person at the centre of the drama were a man aged around 60. The people wouldn’t speculate that the world would come to an end after a few weeks, months or years, but, at best, tomorrow, and, at worst, should have done so yesterday! Being in the category of wazee, I am extra-careful not to slide into a pit of dot-com nuisance! It is delightful, nonetheless, when a chance comes up for a mzee to revisit the mischief in which he or she engaged during one’s youthfulness. After all, so the religiouslyinclined would tell, or remind you, if you confess, the mischief can be sent on permanent leave (forgiveness) or toned down. One such chance came up recently (so I believe), when I reconnected with Jacobson Otanshekya a boyhood friend, who subsequently graduated to an elderly friend. For the record, before I proceed, the first name was originally ‘Jacob’, to which he donated ‘son’ to give it a fanciful touch (bonus?). The second one translates as “don’t make me laugh”; which is ridiculous because I don’t know of anyone under the sun and moon who loves laughing more than he does. Our friendship dates back to not too many years after we had been created. We bonded mainly on account of sinful boyhood adventurism in which we engaged, but which, in our childish innocence, we considered harmless; and maybe holy. We used to rest in the shade of mango trees, half-eating and half-drinking mangoes we hadn`t stolen but merely harvested from trees belonging to people whose permission we didn`t seek. It was pointless to seek such permission because, number one, we had a constitutional right to do justice to our throats and stomachs. And two, allowing ourselves to die of thirst amid so many mangoes around (some of which drop and rot) would be suicidal, and committing suicide was illegal and sinful. It means that an offender is entitled to a jail term and, upon bidding the world bye-bye and acquiring unpleasant residence in hell when the passport for being a citizen of the world expires. Mr Don’t make me laugh (sorry; Otanshekya) and I met in the garden section of a place I won’t name for religious reasons, for a chat-and-drink. A young mango seller was surprised when Jacobson told him that we had a glorious history of not buying the fruits but getting them free of charge. I burst into laughter and he did likewise. He then whispered something into my blessed ear, after which we knelt by the table, and he loudly said a brief prayer, pleading with God to forgive us for having been mango thieves in the distant past! We bought all the youngster’s 20 mangoes, and started ‘eatingdrinking’ one each. Half-confused and half-surprised, the youngster turned his head heavenwards and loudly asked God to bless us! wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633