DEPUTY Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Mwita Waitara has directed Siha District Council to award the head teacher of Mkombozi Primary School in Orkolili Ward a certificate of appreciation for giving part of her allowance as a contribution to the construction of a school project. Speaking during the summing up of his tour of Siha District recently, the deputy minister said by donating her allowance to the project which she could use with her family members, the head teacher, Ms Siporah Maeda, had shown patriotism to the nation. “I have visited many parts of the country since I became deputy minister, but as far as I am concerned I haven’t met a leader who had surrendered his or her part of allowance for any project in his or her area of work,” he said. Mr Waitara also expressed his satisfaction with Siha District Council and Orkolili Ward leadership’s decision to embark on a project meant to construct more classrooms for Esinyari Secondary School this year, early enough for the admission of new Form One students next year to avoid challenges that might arise after this year’s primary school examinations. “We are in the very first days of the year 2020, but your thoughts have gone far to the extent of planning to construct more classrooms for Form One admissions next year. This is a move which shows how committed you are in supporting the government’s efforts to improve education in the country,” he said, as he assured that the government through his ministry would facilitate the construction of four classrooms for the school. Siha District Council Executive Director (DED) Ndaki Muhuli told Mr Waitara that the council had decided to embark on a such school project due to the fact that since the introduction of free education the number of primary school pupils had increased, hence there was a need for more classrooms, including this year and next year. Earlier, briefing the deputy minister, Ms Maeda said the school administration had received 46.6m/- for the construction of two classrooms and six latrines at Mkombozi Primary School under a government funded programme called the Education Payment for Results (EP4R). “Residents’ contribution has helped to cut down construction costs, whereby the remaining funds and the head teacher’s allowance has helped to complete another classroom which was then in its final stages,” she said. Ms Maeda said challenges facing Mkombozi Primary School included lack of 13 latrines and lack of teachers’ toilet and five classrooms.