WE are now in the New Year 2020 and believe we are also new people with new resolutions. As we mentioned last week , this year is an important year to us because we hold the general election to elect our leaders who will serve us for other five years. As w e held the 2015 general election w ith high expectations, some of w hich have been fulfilled, w e w ill hold the general election later this year w ith high expectations too. We w ant our leaders to lead us in the right direction as a country and nation – that is all w e need from them! We say this because we believe w e are still a developing country and envision becoming a middle-income and industrial economy by 2025 and our leaders have to lead us tow ards that end. So, w e still have a big task ahead of us mak ing this a reality. There are many projects going on at the moment in different parts of the country w hich are part of mak ing Tanzania a middle-income and industrial economy. They include the Tanzania Standard G auge Railw ay (SG R), w hich links Tanzania to neighbouring countries, the 2,100MW Rufiji hydropow er project on Rufiji River in Stielger’s Gorge, w hich w ill more than double the country’s power generation capacity and many other projects. As the government has improved the investment climate, there are various local and foreign investors w ho have show n interest in various sectors of the economy. This is due to the fact that there are more investment opportunities and tourist attractions that are being unveiled and advertised, thank s to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and stak eholders. Not only that, the completion of Julius Nyerere International Airport Terminal 3 and the purchase of some new passenger aircraft have added more life to Tanzania’s sector of tourism. The construction of various processing plants, vessels for Lake Victoria and Lake Nyasa as w ell as improvement of Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Kigoma, Kagera, Rukwa and Mtw ara ports and in Zanzibar are other encouraging steps in 2020. With the construction of vessels in Lake Victoria and in the Indian Ocean, residents w ill enjoy affordable w ater transport, which is crucial to their economy. The youth, men and w omen are involved in various income generating activities. If w e really k eep it up, it w ill mak e a big difference in our lives. With all efforts being made w e are sure of attaining a middle-income and industrial economy by 2025. So, let us not turn back , but truly keep the fire burning for it is the inclusive economy that w ill mak e all Tanzanians enjoy the fruits of their labour.