THIS has been the shortest year. Who else agrees with me? I feel like I’m not ready to say goodbye to you 2019. I’m one happy person as I reflect through the year that’s just about to end. Not because I had it all figured out but because I thank God for the moments that didn’t make sense and the many times of triumph. We must have all had and some of us are still going through those really tiring moments. What can I say? For me I take it as simple as God revealing our hidden strength to us. The strength we wouldn’t have discovered. The late Whitney Houston sang ‘I didn’t know my own strength’, have you ever thought about these words? This lady was heaven sent and I believe even though she is gone, she served her purpose with the little time God gave her on earth and left behind a great legacy with her powerful songs. May she continue resting in power. The lyrics in ‘I hope you dance’ by Lee Ann Womack’s which is one of my favourite songs reminds us never to take any single breath for granted. This is deep. She goes on to state that living might mean taking chances but the chances are worth taking just the same way loving might be a mistake but worth making. Here goes my favourite line ” don’t let one hell bent heart leave you bitter.” Don’t let the trying and bitter moments of 2019 cross over with you to 2020. It’s a wrap for all the sorrows of 2019. 2020 will be a new dawn with greater things. This is the year I faced as many victories and failures all wrapped the same. This is the year I have lost many battles and gained so much favour with God. I’m grateful to God for all that I have and all that I lost. For those who have lost jobs, new jobs await you in 2020. If you have been heart broken just know God has kept someone for you. If you are in that intense pain because you have lost your loved one, sorry can never be enough. But the best part is that 2020 is coming like raging fire and who knows what great things await us? Don’t despair but be hopeful. You might have lost touch with your soul, crashed down and tumbled but don’t allow yourself to crumble. These are the words of Whitney Houston written in her song ‘I didn’t know my own strength’. We are yet to begin a new year and a new decade. What a great time to be alive. All thanks to Him. This is a big deal, right? How grateful I am to God for making a lot things happen my way and for also making a lot of things happen His own way and not my way. Looking back, I give thanks. Looking back, I give thanks. This decade has brought us a long way. When the decade we are just about to bid farewell to began, I was a teenager with not much to worry about. How I wish I only knew half of things I know now. But no regrets, a lot of self-growth has taken place. This decade has been the defining moment in my life. It has been 10 years worth of self discovery. This has been the moment of make it or break it for me, the twenties. The times when reality hits you hard.The times you realize you are no longer fully dependent on your parents for everything. When you realize you have to make very crucial decisions on your own and bare the consequences. The world can become very small. Right. Ask me about it. Despite all that, my heart is full and at peace because I know what was meant for me will never miss me and what misses me was not meant for me. I have more time for roses and breathers. More time to enjoy my days. I have learnt to live by smelling the roses. This doesn’t mean giving up, but instead giving in. LETTING GO. Trusting and trusting a bit more. Cheers to another decade, this far we have come is by the grace of God.