RESEARCH on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA) and the ISS-Erasmus University considers trade as an important aspect of industrial development, calling for a link between producers of raw materials and manufacturers and between manufacturers and consumers. REPOA Executive Director, Dr Donald Mmari speaking during the launch of European Union (EU) funded project on Strengthening Capacity of Exporters to Sustainably Enhance Export Competitiveness and Diversification, said they want to bring together all the concerned parties. The 18-month programme, he said, titled -Targeted support to strengthen capacity of policy makers, exporters and trade associations’ will review trade and related economic policies to promote trade competitiveness and diversification. “The programme’s focus on trade competitiveness and diversification directly speaks to our national drive to foster economic transformation towards a modern, competitive and diversified economy led by industries,” said Dr Mmari. However, he said transformation will also require interventions and transformation of other productive and service sectors, including agriculture, livestock and fisheries, finance and planning, transport and many others. “The effort requires the engagement of many state and non-state actors. That is why this programme targets policy makers from various sectors, trade support institutions, regional bodies, including the EAC Secretariat and researchers,” he said. He urged for engagement of stakeholders in the process of improving national policies and institutional framework aimed at improving the business environment and competitiveness of the economy. “Since its establishment, REPOA has implemented its mandate of generating knowledge based on credible and targeted policy research and promoted its use in policies and development interventions to achieve socio-economic transformation for inclusive growth and sustained poverty reduction” he insisted. He said the programme will have three major components, namely trade policy reviews and analysis; capacity building of key actors; and technical support for value chain development. Moreover, he added that the programme will focus on five value chains, namely horticulture, rice, leather, seaweed, and logistics, saying the selection was informed by many factors, including capacity and budgetary limitations. He said agriculture sector was chosen due to its importance in the country, and with respect to food security, export earnings and employment, particularly for women and young people. “This applies to horticulture, rice, and seaweeds. Second, it’s potential for contributing to the manufacturing sector and exports, given the comparative advantages of availability of raw material. This applies particularly to the leather subsector, as Tanzania has the second largest herd of livestock in Africa.” He added, “leverage provided by the advantages of geography, particularly the case for logistics sea freight, railways, roads, air, storage, which is not just a key service for export of other commodities under consideration, but also as an exportable service itself across the EAC and SADC regions.” He was optimistic that the programme outputs will compliment initiatives for strengthening the business environment under the Blueprint, a holistic government approach for reviewing policy and regulatory framework as approved at the end of 2017. On her part, the Deputy Minister for Trade and Industries, Eng Stella Manyanya said the government will utilize research findings and recommendations in its various policies and strategies, insisting on the research evidence findings.