WHEN one writes the history and performance of Tanzania People’s Defence Force (TPDF) the name of General David Musuguri must come out prominently. The former army chief is turning 100 years today. The former highly decorated Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) granted an exclusive early this week to the ‘Daily News’ at his home Village of Butiama in Mara region where he shared some insights about life in the army. In his remarks, General Musuguri expressed his gratitude to the government and the entire Tanzania community for taking care of him. “I thank Tanzanians so much for taking care of me until this time when I am turning 100 years. I did not expect to turn 100 years but good care has made it possible,” he said in a low by audible tone. He was appointed to the high est post in the military in 1983 by Tanzania’s first President and the founding father of the nation the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. General Musuguri’s 100th birthday celebration will be held at Butiama today. He retired from the military 32 years ago. Family sources said the 100th birthday function which will include thanks giving mass that will be presided over by a parish priest of Butiama Roman Catholic Church will start at around 10:am . The ‘Daily News on Saturday’ is informed that several government officials and political leaders have been invited to attend the event. General Musuguri urged Tanzanians to maintain the prevailing peace and tranquility across the country. “Let us continue to maintain peace of Tanzania and every Tanzanian should be educated on the importance of maintaining peace”, he insisted. The retired soldier who served as CDF during the first and second phase governments said he has always been happy with the performance of the government of Tanzania. “I am happy with the government since we attained independence and I am still very excited with the government,” the former CDF noted. He advised young men and women to respect the government and work hard in order to turn Tanzanian into one of the most developed parts on earth.