PRESIDENT John Magufuli has threatened to dissolve the Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) for inefficiency. President Magufuli said he was tired of TBA’s failure to deliver in a number of mega construction projects. He lambasted the government agency on Thursday while inaugurating new residential buildings for Prison wardens at Ukonga area, in Dar es Salaam. The multi-billion project was initially awarded to TBA but a delayed execution of the project compelled the president to shift the task to National Service. The agency has, at different times been contracted with a number of government projects but failed to deliver on time, a move that raised complaints from clients. In March 2016, the TBA was awarded the 10bn/- project, which included the construction of 12-four storeys for Prison wardens and other staff members in Dar es Salaam. But until March 2019 when president Magufuli visited the project, the work had reached only 45 per cent. Vividly irritated by the poor performance, the president ordered the TBA to handover the project to Tanzania People’s Defence Force (TPDF) for implementation through the National Service. “TBA has to assess its performance otherwise I’ll dissolve it one day in the near future. We cannot go on this way. They have to change because they are delaying development,” warned the president. But Dr Magufuli reserved special praises to the National Service for putting up in hard work and by delivering all the assigned projects on time and with high standards. He urged the army to maintain the same spirit and put ahead the national interests. “The national service have spent only six month to complete the 55 per cent of the work that remained with a 3bn/- budget only. They have done a commendable job, to be honest,” lauded the president. He challenged the Prison Service to learn from the National Service when it comes to implementing their projects. So far, the National service has implemented a number of projects, including the 24-kilometre wall around Mirerani gemstone mine in Simanjiro district, Manyara region, Government City in Dodoma, the 27 kilometre-long wall around State House of Chamwino in Dodoma region and the just finished houses project at Ukonga. The president said it was a shame that the Prison Service with all resources including wardens and prisoners could not construct their own houses and had to wait for a helping hand from the National Service. He posed a challenge to the Prisons to use the remaining plot of land to build other houses in a continued effort to address shortage of houses of the force. “You need to be sharp, you can do some of the projects by yourself, all the resources are there,” he implored. “I know you have started taking some initiatives in the agriculture sector, same efforts should also be seen in other projects, you have to change the mindset, the force has to be creative and productive,” he told the CGF. President Magufuli also asked the Commissioner General of Prisons (CGP) Phaustine Kasike to ensure all the new houses are supplied with tap water before the units are assigned to the occupants. Dr Magufuli also inquired about the contract between the Prisons department through the Karanga Leather Industry Limited (KLIL) and an Italian company for a new plant project, which is yet to take off. KLIL is a joint venture between Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF) and the Prison Department. “From the agreement, a total of 9bn/- were released to be spent for the first phase of the construction of the factory where the machines from Italy would be installed, until now the building is yet to be completed while the machines have already been shipped to Dar es Salaam,” he revealed.