MEMBERS of Jitihada Women Group of entrepreneurs have been engaged in making cleaning detergent and packaged snacks for the past three years, but complain lack of markets for their products. They say that despite government’s efforts in promoting entrepreneurship, it hasn’t done enough in finding markets for the locally-produced goods. Entrepreneur Mgeni Omar says despite the many successes recorded in the country’s development, lack of markets remains a challenge that must be addressed to move forward. Ms Omar is among hundreds of entrepreneurs in Zanzibar who complain of lack of advertisements and inadequate knowledge in producing goods. It is said that the goods -- traditional medicines, cosmetics, foods, handicrafts and farm products -- lack access to reliable markets. Some business analysts and leaders also link the challenge to entrepreneurs’ inability to value addition, low quality products, lack of processing and poor packaging. COSTECH, the Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology, has come to the rescue of the traders to strengthen research. According to COSTECH coordinator in Zanzibar Dr Afua Mohamed, his organisation will widen and improve research for the development of entrepreneurs. “We have plans to conduct researches aiming at increasing production, value addition through processing and having quality products from farms and factories,” he said. Speaking at the just ended trade fair to mark the 56th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution, Dr Afua said already entrepreneurs engaged in sardines, seaweed farming and cassava growers, are now benefiting from COSTECH assistance. She said an assessment shows increased production of cassava and potatoes and that seaweed farmers are producing various products while people engaged in the sardine trade have won markets in neighbouring countries, mainly DR Congo because of improved drying and packaging. The State University of Zanzibar (SUZA) and the Institute of Marine Science of the University of Dar es Salaam have been conducting researches with support from COSTECH. Collaboration among researchers has also led to innovation of organic fertilizers. “We encourage people, particularly the young, to come up with workable proposals that will improve products. “COSTECH is helping us improve production. We have improved our sardine production and packaging,” said Yunus Rashid Juma from Ndagoni in Pemba. An estimated more than 900 people (men and women) are engaged in sardine drying while more than 25,000 people are engaged in seaweed farming and other crops such as potatoes and cassava. “We are encouraging farmers to cultivate Orange Flesh Sweet Potatoes (OFSP) proved to contain enough Vitamins A,” said Ms Fatma Haji Khamis and Ms Salma Omar Mohamed, both researchers at the Zanzibar Agriculture Research Institute (ZARI). They said that they have embarked on promoting the growing of the potatoes in Unguja and Pemba to eliminate Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) and increase income to the farmers. Since the introduction of the orange potatoes in 2012 and after a successful research to develop them, more and more farmers are already engaged in their farming. “Our target is people in the villages to grow and consume the potatoes because most of them cannot afford nutritious foods like meat and eggs,” Ms Khamis said. She said studies have proved that the potatoes, which can be grown in various places in of the Zanzibar and Mainland Tanzania are supplements for Vitamin A. “We ask the people to consume the potatoes so that VAD can be minimized. The potatoes are grown in Donge, Bambi and Bumbwini on Unguja Island and Makangale in South Pemba Island."