IF you know something’s bad for you, why can’t you just stop? Remember, drug and alcohol abusers struggle to give up addictions that hurt their bodies and tear apart families and friendships. And many of us have unhealthy excess weight that we could lose if only we would eat right and exercise more. So why don’t we do it? Note that bad habits interrupt your life and prevent you from accomplishing your goals. They jeopardize your health both mentally and physically. And they waste your time and energy. So why do we still do them? And most importantly, is there anything you can do about it? I’ve previously written about the science of how habits start, so now let’s focus on the practice of making changes in the real world. How can you delete your bad behaviours and stick to good ones instead? Note that habits play an important role in our health and understanding the biology of how we develop routines that may be harmful to us and how to break those routines and embrace new ones, could help us change our lifestyles and adopt healthier behaviours. Habits can arise through repetition. They are a normal part of life, and are often helpful. We wake up every morning, shower, comb our hair or brush our teeth without being aware of it. We can drive along familiar routes on mental auto-pilot without really thinking about the directions. Thus, when behaviours become automatic, it gives us an advantage, because the brain does not have to use conscious thought to perform the activity, which frees up our brains to focus on different things. Habits can also develop when good or enjoyable events trigger the brain’s “reward” centres. This can set up potentially harmful routines, such as overeating, smoking, drug or alcohol abuse, gambling and even compulsive use of computers and social media. The general machinery by which we build both kinds of habits are the same, whether it’s a habit for overeating or a habit for getting to work without really thinking about the details. Both types of habits are based on the same types of brain mechanisms. But there’s one important difference, and this difference makes the pleasure-based habits so much harder to break. Enjoyable behaviours can prompt your brain to release a chemical called dopamine. That is, if you do something over and over, and dopamine is there when you’re doing it that strengthens the habit even more. When you’re not doing those things, dopamine creates the craving to do it again. This therefore explains why some people crave drugs, even if the drug no longer makes them feel particularly good once they take it. In a sense, then, parts of our brains are working against us when we try to overcome bad habits. These routines can become hardwired in our brains and the brain’s reward centres keep us craving the things we’re trying so hard to resist. The good news is, humans are not simply creatures of habit. We have many more brain regions to help us do what’s best for our health. We are much better than any other animal at changing and orienting our behaviour toward long-term goals, or long-term benefits. One approach to break the harmful habits is to focus on becoming more aware of your unhealthy habits. Then develop strategies to counteract them. For example, habits can be linked in our minds to certain places and activities. You could develop a plan, say, to avoid walking down the hall where there’s a canteen. Resolve to avoid going to places where you’ve usually smoked or even stay away from friends and situations linked to problem of drinking or drug use. Another helpful technique is to visualize yourself in a tempting situation. Mentally practice the good behaviour over the bad one. If you’ll be at a party and want to eat vegetables instead of fattening foods, then mentally visualize yourself doing that. It’s not guaranteed to work, but it certainly can help. One way to kick bad habits is to actively replace unhealthy routines with new, healthy ones. Some people find they can replace a bad habit, even drug addiction, with another behaviour, like exercising. Note that it doesn’t work for everyone but certain groups of people who have a history of serious addictions can engage in certain behaviours that are ritualistic and in a way compulsive such as marathon running and it helps them stay away from drugs. These alternative behaviours can counteract the urges to repeat a behaviour to take a drug. One thing we need to understand that makes habits especially hard to break is that replacing a first-learned habit with a new one doesn’t erase the original behaviour. Rather, both remain in your brain. But you can take steps to strengthen the new one and suppress the original one. Put in mind and practice all tips of breaking bad habits for instance, Keep fatty foods, cigarettes, alcohol and other tempting items out of your home. Also replace unhealthy behaviours with healthy ones like trying to exercise, having a favorite hobby or spending time with family. You also need to prepare yourself mentally if you want to break the unhealthy habits for instance, if you can’t avoid a tempting situation, prepare yourself in advance. Think about how you want to handle it and mentally practice what you plan. Lastly enlist support groups that you can turn to for help so you need to ask your friends, family and co-workers to support your efforts to change. Remember, bad habits may be hard to change, but it can be done if you purpose to change your habits! The Author, Racheal Masibo, is an Assistant Lecturer at St John’s University of Tanzania (SJUT)-School of Nursing, P.O BOX 47 Dodoma Tanzania. Email: rackelmasibo@yahoo.com Mobile: 0717513598