VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has bitterly condemned excessive power ambitions amongst some Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Youth Wing members, asking them to instead focus on strengthening the party at the grassroots level. She said greed for power and recognition was only fomenting bickering and weakening the ruling party’s highly reliable wing. “The youth are the government’s and country’s indispensable resource and, at the national leadership, we give you top priority. Unfortunately, you are seemingly not settled,” Ms Samia told CCM youth at the closure of their 130-kilometre walk to celebrate the 56th Zanzibar Revolution anniversary commemoration. Addressing over 500 youth who climaxed their eight-day walk at Mapinduzi Square here yesterday, she de- scribed the youth wing as the leadership furnace and challenged members to remain patient as they went through the process. “Remain calm as you go through the process to mature in leadership but if you embrace hate, you will get nowhere,” warned Ms Samia, saying the fact that the youth constitute over 47 per cent of Zanzibar and Union governments spoke volumes of the appreciation that the youth enjoyed from national leaders. He told all youth in the country to grab the available economic and business opportunities in the country instead of being idle and complaining over unemployment. “Both governments are working hard to create an enabling environment for the youth to improve their social and economic wellbeing, but you have to see and exploit the opportunities,” she said, challenging the youth to make utmost use of available funds, which the government has established to address capital constraints among the young population. She implored the CCM youth to get rid of conspiracies and character assassination among themselves but work hard instead for the party, reminding them that, “This is an election year and CCM relies heavily on you.” However, the country’s second in command accused CCM youth of bliss contentment, directing them to get out of the comfort zone and work for the interest of the wing.