A BIG number of public leaders not eligible in declaring their assets and liabilities before the ethics secretariat flooded the office with their submission. The secretariat’s Commissioner, Judge (rtd) Harold Nsekela, announced on Thursday that at least 366 leaders rushed their declaration forms, without knowing that they are not among the target of the 1995 public leadership code of ethics legislation. “This law targets national leaders, not every leader in the central or local government,” he said, adding that they have received an enormous submission from individuals who thought they were part of the leaders required to submit by 31st of December each year. He went on to note that the secretariat had so far received declarations from all national leaders, including the president, who submitted his forms two days before the deadline. Others who submitted include ministers, deputy ministers (except one), judges, permanent secretaries, deputy secretaries (except one), heads of security organs, and regional commissioners. Judge Nsekela said several officials, including head of departments; acting directors and regional mineral officers filled the forms although they are not required to. “We had to sideline such applications,” he added. According to the law except where the constitution or any other written law provides otherwise, directs everyone to declare their assets within thirty days after taking office and at the end of each year. The law, however, casts a shadow of contradictions, and Judge Nsekela admits “it has generated a huge challenge.” He did not disclose whether the secretariat was considering amending such legal disputes, but highlighted that the unit has so far started strengthening its eight zones across Tanzania Mainland to resolve such arising challenges. He said that his office noted the challenge experienced in submitting the forms, saying that this year they plan to roll out an online portal that will help each individual to submit their documents online. He said the secretariat is not charged with the legislative affairs and therefore documents from the legislators are first handled by the national assembly authority. He could not divulge more details regarding submission of declaration forms from members of the parliament, insisting that the group understands the procedures.