INSECTS are invertebrates within the arthropod phylum that have an exoskeleton that covers a body which is divided into three major parts. Pray mantis and stick insect are all found in the phylum of arthropod and in the order of insect but the two almost look alike, mantises are found in the order of mantodae while stick insects are found in phasmatodae, just like others the two insects are found in different parts of the world. Mantises are one of many insects which dwells in the wetland of tropical savannah in America, Asia and Africa. Stick insects are mysterious small arthropod which found in tropical rain-forests, savannah grassland and woodlands in all continents of the world. The Stick insect is able to encounter different geographical challenges but these small insects are not found on top of high mountains such as Kilimanjaro. The north and south poles which are covered by ice sheets throughout a year. For the first time before you, the stick insects may look like a bizarre creature because it is built in a round body approximately measuring up to 29.4 and weighing between 60 and 75 grams. Octopus and chameleon change their colour to avoid attacks from their enemies but stick insects use their round body to camouflage with environment, from millions of years ago this method has been practiced by the stick insect using three different tactics. The first method is mimicry, this is applied as the insect use its sticklike structure to hide in the middle of small branches of trees which look like its small round body. This tactic is applied when the Stick insect under pressure from attacks from predators such as Chameleons and birds which target preys on trees, scientists say the method is implemented by this insect according to environment and the specie because those which are green while hide underneath leaves while brown takes cover between dry woods. The second method is called Crypsis which help the insect to avoid being seen by any predator moving along in a nearby branch. Scientists say the stick insect use this tactic according to ecology which its dwelling inn, normally Crypiss method is applied during day times when the stick insect sees a predator and stand still like a small branch of a tree. The stick insect is known to shake its body in a rhythmical motion with movements of leaves and branches of a tree which is under pressure of a slow moving wind. When all the above mentioned traps fail to fend off an approaching predator the stick insect will implement the third tactic which applied very quick to open a window for escape, in a fraction of a second the Stick insect spreads its wings which enlarge its size while displaying the underneath of its wings which have bright colours. This action may be staged for more than 20 minutes and it’s normally accompanied with a large hissing sound which works effectively with the bright colours to pose an immediate threat to the predator. Scientist says that some time the stick insect may pose as a dangerous scorpion when it stands firm while pointing its back upward to fake a Telson or sting. When these entire tricks fail to scare a hungry predator, rapidly the stick insect will embark on chemical warfare which may force its enemy to abandon its mission. In the middle of an attack the stick insect release chemical with bad smell which blind and force the predator to stop its attack. This is due to some of these chemicals have corrosive elements which are able to burn and harm the arms of a predator very quickly. This open the window for escape to the Stick insect which run for its dear life at a top speed 6.8 to 9 kilometers per hour for 2.5 meters and go into a hiding inside the forest, unlike the stick insect, pray mantises are one of many insects which dwells in the wetland of tropical savannah in America, Asia and Africa and they are well known for their fearless habit. Morphologically mantises are structured just like kick-boxers from Thailand, Ninja from Japan or Karate men from China but spiritually they are heroes just like Morani or Maasai warriors. Pray mantises are regarded as combatants because of style and irregular action which they display when hunting a prey or defending themselves or their meal against an enemy, before these insects nothing is big or fearsome, they are able to stand firm against an enemy which may be very big beyond their body size which is 7.5 for female and 5.5 centimeters for male by applying seven different military like tactics. Unlike Ninja men who mostly depend on stiff clothes which they wear when going on a mission, pray mantises use a flexible body cover called exoskeleton to protect them while like karate men they put up a hazardous fight using their resilient muscles. Just like a Ninja fighting costume, a body of pray mantis is covered by a hard shell which enable the insect to spin its head for more than 180 degrees easily without changing its position or bending part of its body backward. Camouflaging for timing of a prey is an important tactic for these insects as they hide in the middle of a branch of a tree waiting for an opportunity to arrive, while standing still like a stick or tilting majestically while dancing to the rhythm of a moving wind, a hungry mantis may manipulate other insect to come into a very close to strategic position for an attack. Scientists say pray mantises are patient insects because this tricky may be prolonged for many hours until the insect is rewarded with a prey. When this method fails to bear fruits, a hungry mantis is forced to apply its third tactic by embarking on a rapid ambush whereby at prey is chased and grabbed swiftly because of flexibility of the legs. If a prey tries to release itself from the predator, pray mantis will quickly turn to bite the head of its victim so that to kill a frustrated and struggling insect by pressing its strong jaws which are equipped with deadly sharp ends. The prey mantis is an apex predator which live by killing and eat other insects and its capable of developing a habit of hunting certain species such as grasshopper after obtaining their flesh delicious taste. In a biological characteristic called Sexual dimorphism, female mantises are bigger than male and are capable of mating with single or multiple partners for about 24 hours without a stop but in some spices this act end up by the male being killed and eaten by his wife. Usually pray mantises perform a special dance to colour their act of love which produce fruits of 10 to 400 fertilised eggs but on the other hand a female stick insect is capable of laying more 1,200 eggs at one time. Pray mantis and stick insect are arthropods which play an important role in the ecology where they dwell, these include controlling of number of other insects and pollination of flowers. Vunjajungu is Swahili name for pray mantis while the stick insect is called Mdudukijiti.