SIMBA SC face a tricky fourth round tie in Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) as they take on Shinyanga’s Mwadui FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The Msimbazi Street lads will be looking to reproduce their good form in the Mainland Premier League into the ASFC. Simba will get into the ASFC fourth round buoyed with confidence after seeing off Arusha’s First Division League (FDL) tier AFC by 6-0 in the previous round. Sven Vandenbroek charges will also come into the match fresh from winning their back to back league matches at the Lake Zone. They beat Mbao FC 2-1 at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza last Wednesday and registered a 4-1 victory over Alliance FC at the same venue last Sunday. Vandenbroek has received a major boost in his squad with newly signed attackers Shiza Kichuya and Mozambican Luis Miquissone who have been cleared to feature for Simba after receiving their International Transfer Certificate (ITC). Striker Miraji Athumani is also reportedly fit and ready to be deployed into the fray after recovering from injury that laid him off for the past two months. Athumani is the second leading scorer for Simba in the league with six goals, five behind his colleague Meddie Kagere. Simba will head into the match today with vengeance in their mind, basing on the fact that Mwadui FC are the only team to have collected maximum points against them (Simba) in the top flight this season. Last October, Mwadui defeated Simba 1-0 at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga in premier league outing, to break the defending champions’ unbeaten run. However, the game is expected to be tough and unpredictable, as Mwadui will also go into the match targeting to prove that they did not fluke in their last meeting against Simba. Mwadui will come into the game after losing 1-0 against Azam FC in a premier league tie held in the midweek. The defeat saw the Shinyanga based side dropping down to the relegation zone in the table by settling in the 17th position with 16 points, while their opponents Simba are at the top with 41 points. Other fourth round matches today will see Mwanza based Gwambina FC taking on Ruvu Shooting at Gwambina Stadium in Misungwi, Mwanza, while African Sports of Tanga will confront Alliance FC of Mwanza at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. Mtwara’s Ndanda FC will welcome Dodoma FC at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara; Ihefu FC of Mbeya will have a date against Gipco FC, while Mtibwa Sugar and Sahare All Stars will face off in Gairo ground. Other matches will see JKT Tanzania taking on Tukuyu Stars of Mbeya, while Kagera Sugar will lock horns with Mighty Elephants at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba. Simba traditional rivals Young Africans will be in action tomorrow at the National Stadium, to face Tanzania Prisons in another clash billed to be thrilling. On Monday, ASFC defending champions Azam FC will host First Division League (FDL) side Friends Rangers at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The ‘ice-cream makers’ side won the title last season after beating Lipuli FC of Iringa 1-0 at the Ilulu Stadium in Lindi. Winner of the fourth round encounters will cruise into the last 16 stage and the eventual winner of the ASFC will represent the country into the CAF Confederation Cup in 2020/2021 season.