GOVERNMENT Chemistry Laboratory Authority (GCLA) is set to begin construction of state-of-the-art laboratory in the capital city, Dodoma, from the end of next March. Chief Government Chemist, Dr Fidelice Mafumiko said the authority has already acquired land for the project which is now at early stages. This is part of efforts to bring the GCLA services closer to the people after significant investments on modern laboratory apparatuses during the current fifth phase government. Dr Mafumiko on Wednesday clarified that following the huge investments, time used to conduct laboratory tests and analytical results for different samples has been significantly reduced. The Chief Government Chemist noted that for instance, the authority can conduct DNA test and analysis within 21working days, while previously it took longer. “We can test and analyse samples and provide results within 21 days, it can take one, two...days depending on workload, but can’t exceed 21 days,” he explained. The improvement, he said, was a result of the purchase of nine specialized laboratory tools worth 6.5bn/-bought by the current government. “We are glad that the government has made big investments in infrastructure, ranging from buildings to laboratory tools that have added efficiency to the authority,” Dr Mafumiko noted when briefing a team of government information officers and journalists. Under their campaign dubbed: ‘Tumeboresha Afya’, the information officers, all from institutions under the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Seniors and Children, were on a tour to file on activities that GCLA had conducted to improve the health sector. Mr Sabanitho Mtega, the GCLA Director of Products and Environment Analysis, mentioned some of the purchased specialised laboratory facilities to include Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LCMS/ MS), Gas ChromatographyMass Spectrometry (GCMS), Genetic Analyzer, Gas Analyzer, Total Fat analyser and Fiber analyser. “With modern facilities, the testing has been simplified and speeded up,” Mr David Elias, GCLA Director for Forensic Science and DNA Services, said.