ZANZIBAR President, Ali Mohammed Shein, has reminded combatants as well as all defence and security brigades in Zanzibar of their key role to maintain the country’s peace and tranquillity. He has however appreciated their exemplary job so far, citing their comprehensive participation during the 56th Zanzibar revolutionary festivities that climaxed at Amaan Stadium on January 12. “Zanzibari’s are proud of your job well done,” Dr Shein said in a speech read on his behalf by Minister of State, President’s Office and Chairman of the Revolutionary Council, Issa Haji Ussi at a luncheon he hosted for the brigades at Ziwani police grounds, recently. President Shein has nurtured a tradition of hosting luncheons for all soldiers participating in the revolutionary festivities immediately after commemoration of Zanzibar’s great day. Minister Ussi commended Dr Shein for efficient leadership that has led to security, peace, unity and cohesion, whose product is impressive social and economic development in the Spice Islands. The minister appreciated the president’s continued kindness to host the special luncheon annually, an indication of his love and trust to the citizens he is leading. He expressed optimism over future revolutionary festivities, saying they will keep improving, and thanked the brigades for continually playing their role of ensuring that peace, tranquillity and solidarity prevail in the country. Zanzibar Defence and Security Committee Chairman and Nyuki Brigade Commander, Brigadier General, Fadhil Omar Nondo thanked the head of state for his care of the defence and security units in Zanzibar. “Your kindness, Mr President, inspires and encourages us to execute our responsibilities with enthusiasm,” said Commander Nondo, appreciating the government support, especially during the brigades’ preparations for the revolutionary day parades. At the special luncheon, President Shein was joined by Second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Idd, House of Representatives Speaker, Zubeir Ali Maulid and Zanzibar Chief Justice Omar Othman Makungu. Others were House of Representatives Clerk and Chief Secretary Dr Abdulhamid Yahya Mzee, Zanzibar Attorney General Said Hassan Said, ministers, deputy ministers and government officers.