THE decentralisation of birth registration in Morogoro and Coast regions is aimed at providing access to essential human rights as well as ensuring that every child has the right to an identity. The system, which is for under-five children birth certificates’ issuance has been implemented by the Tanzanian government through the Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA) since 2013 in partnership with the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Global Affairs Canada and Tigo Tanzania. About 15 regions (including Morogoro and Coast) have been reached with nearly 4,000,000 children being registered, according to RITA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Emmy Hudson. She said at the launch of the system in Morogoro that parents can now receive birth certificates from the designated health facilities or through Ward Executive Offices, adding that the system has helped thousands of children in the regions. “And we have a plan to replicate this throughout Tanzania Mainland in the shortest possible time. We are committed to ensuring that no child is left behind, and therefore have taken extra steps focusing more on gender and equity starting with Morogoro and Coast regions. The government duly recognizes the contributions of all development partners for their commitments to this cause,” she said. UNICEF Acting Representative in Tanzania Rene Van Dongen commented that every child has the right to an identity; hence, birth certificate is a vital record that documents the birth of a child. According to him, the right to be registered immediately after birth, to have a name and acquire a nationality is a very child ‘right, enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which recently celebrated 30 years. “The simplified birth registration programme is reversing the current low level of birth registration which means that millions of children under- five who are invisible in the nation’s records, will now be visible. This will help more Tanzanian children to claim their rights and be protected,” he said. Minister-Counsellor and Senior Director (Development) in the High Commission of Canada in Tanzania Gwen Walmsley said that Canada was a proud supporter of Tanzania’s under- five birth strategy and had provided C$ 30.6 million for its implementation in 26 regions of Tanzania Mainland. Stressing on the importance of the programme, she said that for every child, birth certificate provides access to essential human rights, and that it grants them with a personal identity and is a child’s link to education and health care. Providing boys, but especially girls, with legal armour is crucial to protecting them against child trafficking, child labour and early marriages, she said, reiterating that the funding has facilitated the Tanzanian government to establish a sustainable model of birth registration aimed at reaching close to four million girls and boys under the age of five in 15 regions. The fund will significantly contribute to the development of an efficient civil registration and vital statistics system in the country. Tigo is supporting the initiative through innovative mobile technology, which ensures that birth registration data is uploaded and sent to a central database in real time. The company is also using its media platforms in raising awareness about the importance of birth registration in Tanzania. In addition, Tigo is also providing 1, 900 smartphones, worth 143m/-, routers, free SMS to support the initiative. Tigo’s Corporate Responsibility Manager, Ms Halima Okash, on behalf of the Managing Director, Mr Simon Karikali said that, the Company’s decision to support underscores its commitment to build a strong societal ecosystem that brings the promise of technology in communities where it operates. Such an initiative, she said, Tigo is making positive and significant contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals. Additionally, the partnership showcases the role mobile services providers can play in addressing a pressing social need through application of their technology and expertise. “Birth registration is crucial since children’s access to all social services stem from birth certificate. Moreover, for adults to acquire other forms of identification such as voter’s and national IDs, Driver’s licence, passport to mention but few, requires birth certificate. Today, SIM card registration cannot be performed without one of the ID mentioned above,” she said, adding that: