TANZANIA National Business Council (TNBC) has urged the private sector, regional and district government leaderships to cherish self-reliance in executing various development programmes. “Avoid huge donor support dependence that is not sustainable. Donor supports need to have in-built sustainability to avoid donor dependence syndrome,” reads part of the TNBC report released recently. The report, entitled “Best Practices and Lessons from Regional and District Level Public Private Dialogues cite Kilimanjaro Region where there was donor support for public private dialogues and Kilimanjaro Regional Business Council was active hut when the funding ended the dialogue suffered. The report highlights the importance of the councils saying where there have been active councils, respective regions and districts have enjoyed improved relations and trust between public and private sectors. Improved relations and trust, it reports, resulted in increased government revenue and have stimulated development agenda and initiatives. In Morogoro Region, for example, the public private dialogues helped to resolve service levy issues between Morogoro Municipal Council and the private sector. Furthermore, in Kigoma and Dodoma Regions, the dialogue has resulted in establishing one-stop business centres in all districts of the two regions. “… strong leadership, political will, vibrant and dynamic private sector plays a critical role in making regional and district business councils active,” stated the report citing Tanga Region where the RC and the private sector are keen on having vibrant councils. The report underscores the importance of monitoring, evaluation and learning, so that implementation remains on track and learning is appreciated for the purpose of improving future implementation in similar environment. The report calls for enhancing of leadership and political will, adherence to meeting calendar, accountability and implementation of resolutions, developing device mechanism for capturing inputs/issues from unstructured dialogues and trust building among the two sectors. Detected deficiencies include heavy reliance on personalities, capacity and willingness of individuals rather than institutions.