ZANZIBAR President Dr Ali Mohammed Shein yesterday led thousands of Tanzanians, islanders and mainlanders, to celebrate the 56th revolution anniversary at Amaan Stadium here. President Shein arrived at the fully-parked arena few minutes after the Union leader --President John Magufuli, who drew big applause from the green and yellow dominated stands in the 15,000-seater capacity stadium. Upon arrival, Dr Shein received the 21-gun salute and later inspected the guard of honour mounted by the armed forces before receiving the Unguja and Pemba young pioneers’ brass band-led processions. Zanzibaris from North Pemba, South Pemba, North Unguja and Urban West regions were joined by political parties, youth councils, retirees’ community and government institutions and departments in the processions. Wananchi turned up in their thousands to celebrate the “great day” and as early as 8am, the 17,000-person stadium was overflowing, compelling the event organisers and security agencies to restrict entry. However, tents were put outside the stadium, with big screens fixed to beam the event proceedings live and allow all people to participate. Despite the scorching sun, Zanzibaris stayed put to the end of the celebrations. Dr Shein had to summarise his 38-page booklet speech to relieve wananchi from the sun. “Due to the extremely hot sun, I find it unfair to read my entire speech, let me summarise it and because it’s written, these booklets will be distributed to all the people here to read,” said Dr Shein, appreciating the audience’s patience. Earlier, the arrival of President Magufuli at the stadium sparked deafening ovations, an indication of the big support and love that the union leader enjoys in the semi-autonomous archipelago. Dr Magufuli arrived in Zanzibar on Friday afternoon on a five-day tour and graced some activities as part of the celebrations of the 56th revolution anniversary that climaxed yesterday. President Magufuli who is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces was also treated to the national anthem prior to the arrival of the chief guest—Dr Shein—who besides the gun salute, was treated to the Zanzibar anthem. The traditional pomp, parades by members of the security and defence forces, singing and enthusiastic wananchi who frequently uttered statements in support to Presidents Shein and Magufuli beautified the festivity. The Tanzania People’s Defence Forces’ (TPDF) silence drill and commando performance as well as the police force’s tarbush grill was among the most thrilling shows that coloured the day. Zanzibar’s Revolution Day has great historical importance and almost all Zanzibaris celebrate it enthusiastically, with military parades, cultural dances and entertainment shows. The upbeat mood of residents of Zanzibar town was stimulated by the Sunday midnight fireworks at Maisara grounds on the outskirts of Stone town. Hooting from vehicles and sea vessels were also common entertainments for the Islanders in celebrating their revolution. Gates at the Amaan stadium were opened as early as 6am to allow residents in large numbers to witness the event. The 56th revolution anniversary will go down as one of the well attended events with almost all present and past leaders in attendance. Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Majaliwa Kassim, Zanzibar Second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi and retired leaders—Ali Hassan Mwinyi, Benjamin Mkapa, Jakaya Kikwete, Fredrick Sumaye, Edward Lowassa and Mizengo Pinda were among the many attendees to the lively beamed event.