PRESIDENT John Magufuli arrived here yesterday for the 56th Zanzibar revolution anniversary celebrations tomorrow, with Urban West Regional Commissioner (RC) declaring that all preparations for the big day are ready. At Abeid Amani Karume International Airport (AAKIA), the revolutionary government’s Second Vice-President, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, led a heavy entourage of leaders, including ministers, heads of defence and security agencies, to receive the Union leader. Dr Magufuli was briefly treated to various entertaining cultural troupes at the airport before departing to State House. His yesterday’s schedule was not made clear but he is this morning scheduled to lay the foundation stone for Mwanakwerekwe secondary school in Urban West and launch the fivestar Verde Azam Luxury Resort and Spa in Mtoni in the evening. Earlier, Urban West RC Hassan Khatib Hassan told reporters that all the preparations for tomorrow’s celebrations had been completed and invited Zanzibaris to turn up in big numbers to honour the day at Amani Stadium. He said the doors at the 17,000-person capacity sports ground will be opened for members of the public as early as 6:00am and remain open for almost two hours to facilitate smooth entry for wananchi. The doors will close at 8:00am for the national leaders, led by Zanzibar President and Chairman of the Revolutionary Council Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, to enter the grounds. President Shein is scheduled to address the nation, said the RC. Mr Khatib further advised Zanzibaris, especially Urban West residents who host the event, to observe the cleanness campaign to keep the city tidy. He thanked most government institutions for decorating their office buildings with colours of the Zanzibar and Union flags. “All traders should keep their environments clean, the celebrations should never be an excuse for messy surroundings… this is a great day for all patriotic Zanzibaris, let us accord it the reputation it deserves,” impHe also reminded road users, especially motorists and motorcyclists, to adhere to traffic rules and regulations to avoid accidents, saying some roads like Mkunguni which is under maintenance, may remain closed. The 56th revolution anniversaries attain their peak tomorrow after almost two hectic weeks especially for Zanzibar leaders, including President Shein who had a tight schedule of launching as well laying foundation stones for various economic and social projects. Dr Shein will attend tomorrow’s celebrations as his last as Zanzibar president before retiring after his two five-year tenures later this year. Besides, Dr Shein and President Magufuli, the celebrations will also attract many national leaders and diplomats in Tanzania. Already, Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan is in the islands for the celebrations.