HUNDREDS of train passengers mainly from Kigoma to Dar es Salaam were on Tuesday stranded in Dodoma after the Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) suspended its service due to ongoing downpour that had wrecked railway line. In the course, some passengers were refunded halftheir fare to look for other means of transport, according to Dodoma Station Mistress, Rose Ngauga. A total of 648 passengers arrived at the capital city station around 4.00 p.m. Monday and were forced to spend the night at the station, after weather information infiltrated that the railway line at Zuzu and Kingwe in Dodoma was flooded. The stranded passengers said since their journey was cut short by the authorities, they had not received any services such as food and accommodation. “The problem is that we were told we will be refunded, yet, until now it’s nearly 3 p.m. We’re still struggling to be attended,” said one of the passengers, Fatna Juma, travelling from Kigoma to Dar es Salaam. Another passenger who preferred to remain unnamed accompanied by her three kids narrated how she had talked to the authorities for compensation, only to be paid less amount. “They just paid one couch and promised us to make payments within two hours. We have been here since yesterday and we have no food or water to drink,” said another traveller, Jane Kimbe. The passengers said the authority must treat the matter with urgency, and asked the reason why some had to be excluded in the refund. Initially, the Station Manager Ms Ngauga said the corporation is spending at least 10m/- to repay passengers who have been stranded since Monday evening. “We have already made payment to some of them and we’re now at the bank to facilitate release of more money to pay them so that they proceed with their journey,” she added. The favorite deluxe couch was put on hold after rains submerged between 361 and 364 kilometres, though a team of technicians are already on site to fix it. Visiting the passengers, Dodoma District Commissioner, Mr Patrobas Katambi, on Tuesday directed the authorities to look for alternative transport mostly preferably commuter buses. However, he lauded TRC for their prompt communication that helped to save lives of the hundred travellers.