POSTAL Unions in Africa are today converging in Arusha to take stock of technological growth of Postal services on the continent. This is in line with the 40 years anniversary of the Pan African Postal Union (PAPU), a specialized institution of the African Union, whose main objective is to coordinate all activities aimed at developing postal services in Africa. Briefing reporters on Thursday, Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication Dr Maria Sasabo said all 45 member States had confirmed their participation to measure the unions’ relevancy in the digital era. “A number of resolutions will emerge from tomorrow’s symposium (today) on how these unions can easily cope with the ever increasing use of digital communication and technologies,” explained the PS. According to Dr Sasabo, the unions will also take stock of their existence 40 years, since its establishment by the Heads of State and government of the then Organization of African Union (OAU), pursuant to a resolution taken during their meeting on 2th-6th July, 1977 in Libreville, Gabon. The conference will also see ministers responsible for communication highlight issues of paramount interest to the postal industry in Africa in particular and the world at large. The event will equally provide a platform for networking with a view to enhancing cooperation among leading African and global policy-makers, operators, partners and other key stakeholders of the postal sector, according to Dr Sasabo. The two day event will also feature the laying of the foundation stone of the PAPU headquarters building at Sekei ward in Arusha. This comes a week after the Minister of Works, Transport and Communication, Engineer Isaac Kamwelwe, PAPU and Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) senior officials handed over the plot to the contractor-Beijing Engineering Construction Limited that is scheduled to carry out the construction and complete the 17-storey building in 30 months. The Union’s vision would ensure the implementation of a single postal territory that provides innovative, integrated and inclusive policy guidelines for the development of the postal sector in Africa. It fosters inclusive socio economic development for the African citizens through exchanges of documents and goods, money transfer services, assists MSMEs development and the corresponding African industrialization process in Africa, among others.