I WAS fascinated to get tit-tits from the media recently, about very senior citizen Mzee David Musuguri attaining the age of 100, on January fourth. The fascination was drawn from the fact that the figure represents one century. Cruising through 10 decades, each of which owns ten years, is truly terrific! I salute Mzee Musuguri, a one-time Chief of Defence Forces, for having been instrumental in teaching Uganda’s (late) Idi Amin and the army he led a good (yes, good, not bad) lesson for invading Tanzania in 1978. Both arithmetically speaking and arithmetically writing, the number of years Mzee Musuguri owns makes me feel quite embarrassed over referring to myself as a mzee. If I were to meet him, a kingsize as opposed to chief-size “Shikamoo Mzee” greeting of quarter grenade blast proportions would erupt from my mouth in his honour. My “mzee-hood” (“mzeeship”?), thanks to owning roughly six and a half decades, would be sent on temporary compulsory leave. It becomes relevant only when I encounter younger people who have been taught good manners by their parents to respect elders. I guess I shouldn’t dwell further on that aspect because manner-less ones amongst them could boldly inform me that the honorific term “shikamoo” doesn’t feature anywhere as either a constitutional or legal imperative. While I am outdoors, such as taking evening strolls that wise doctors (of course doctors are wise) claim (sorry; advise) that are helpful for boosting the physical and mental systems of elderly people, some younger people address me as “Papaaa”. It is a truly welcome break from the monotonous ‘mzee” donated to me about 50 times a day. Oh, God; I have been moving in circles before getting to the point, but which I guess is helpful to some God’s children for whom straightforward messages don’t register fast. Thank God, I am now moving in as straight a format as a ruler, and just this half-minute, my memory has transported me to the boyhood era, when I was the owner of a height level that was the equivalent of a Congolese pygmy. A friendly old man invited me for a road-side chat in our village, which, as I once disclosed to you, is a haven of mosquitoes and jiggers. I admired his Vietnameselike tiny beard that I briefly adopted during my pre-mzee era in the 1990s but “prematurely” sent it on permanent leave. It was after realising that many people were gazing at me as gleefully as visitors to zoos do at animals. I have forgotten the name of the mzee, who, as you have correctly guessed, has long ceased to be a citizen of the world and relocated to somewhere, whose location no-one seems to know by one hundred percentage, but is speculated to be what is loosely known as “upstairs”. He asked me to assess him carefully and explain what the major differences between the two of us were. Before I uttered a single word, I cast about half-dozen curious glances at him, to get a hint, perhaps, whether he was absolutely okay up there (you know where, don’t you?) or whether, maybe, the stuff he was sipping from a small, longish, brownish calabash was reducing some marks off his wisdom. I was suspicious because I had witnessed some men around his age doing things that, thanks to having sipped more than their constitutionally sanctioned quota of the traditional wine ‘lubisi’, would probably trigger Satan into dying of shock. I told him that the difference between us was that he was an old man whereas I was a young boy. And, plus, he was roughly three times taller than me, some whitish hair had invaded his black hair, and a few of his teeth had vanished under circumstances for which he would accuse, and most probably whip me, if I speculated. What’s more, I said, he was wearing, beneath the stomach, a pair of trousers, whereas I was wearing a pair of shorts which was dirtier than his. He slapped me thrice, saying that, I was bad mannered, in reference to my rating of the dirtiness of what we wore in roughly the bottom halves of our bodies. The mzee then volunteered some tips to me on how I should behave when I became an old man like him, since senior citizenship and example-setting good manners were supremely important. He stressed that whenever I would be in the company of groups of people, I should behave honorably, as the contrary would produce contrary outcomes. I promised to heed the golden advice, but the show was spoiled last week-end, over 50 years later. While killing time (as if time can die) at Wazee Waburudike Paradise Bar, I became a nuisance. Due to poor eyesight and taste consciousness, I drank lots of ‘soda’ in green ßbottles resembling the ones that host a certain brand of beer. wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633