NEW Year’s resolutions are easy to make but easier to break. Why is it so hard to make the healthy changes that we know can help us feel better and live longer? And why is it so hard to make them last? At least a grater majority of people have a favorite New Year’s resolution. It may be the same one they mak e every year. What happens when the good intentions fall by the w ayside? What makes it so hard to stick to a resolution? If despite your best intentions your yearly resolutions seem to disappear before end of January, there is a w ay to turn those w ell-laid plans into habits. Lets discuss more about how w e can make healthy changes and even more important, how w e can sustain them. Remember, change is alw ays possible since you’re never too out-of-shape, too overw eight or too old to make healthy changes. Some of the most common New Year’s resolutions are losing weight, getting more physical activity, eating more nutritious foods, quitting cigarettes, cutting back on alcohol, reducing stress and sleeping better. But no matter w hich healthy resolution you choose, you need to set some common strategies w hich can boost your chance of mak ing the change a habit, a part of your daily lifestyle. One challenge w ith New Year’s resolutions is that people often set unrealistic goals. They can quickly become frustrated and give up. Any resolution to change needs to include small goals that are definable and accompanied by a solid plan on how you’ll get to that goal. For instance, a resolution to lose 30 pounds may seem overw helming. Instead, try setting smaller goals of losing 5 pounds a month for 6 months. This strategy seems more realistic unlik e the 30 pound goal. Next, develop an action plan. You might decide to w alk a half an hour each day to burn calories. You might stop buying vending machine snack s or even more so, you might limit and k eep track of your daily calories. To make a long-lasting change in your life, prepare yourself for the challenges you might face. Think about w hy you w ant to make the change. Is it important to you, or is it mostly influenced by others lik e your doctor, your spouse or a friend, note that if it’s something you really w ant for yourself, if it’s meaningful to you, you’re more lik ely to stick to it and meet your target. Think of exactly how the change w ill enhance your life. For instance, w hen you stop smoking, your risk for cancer, heart disease, strok e and early death drops down. Reducing stress might cut your risk for heart disease and help you fight off germs. Even small improvements in your physical activity, weight or nutrition may help reduce your risk for disease and lengthen your life. Keeping facts lik e this in mind can help you maintain your focus over the long haul. Setting up a supportive environment is also another key step tow ard success. Think about the physical support you’ll need, like the right equipment for exercise, appropriate clothing and the right k inds of foods to have at home. Remove items that might trip up your efforts. If you’re quitting smok - ing, throw aw ay your ashtrays and lighters. To improve your nutrition, put unhealthy but tempting foods on a hard-to-reach shelf, or get rid of them since you w ouldn’t w ant to be tempted from your goal. Social support should also be your k ey focus since people’s health behaviours lik e smok ing or w eight gain tend to mirror those of their friends, family and spouses. You can enlist friends and family to help you eat better, to go on w alk s w ith you, to remind you to stay on track . It is important to find things that are fun to do together, since you’ll be more lik ely to stick w ith it. Remember, it helps w hen you’re connected to a specific group, w here lifestyle change lik e w eight loss, quitting smok ing or drink ing is a joint goal since people learn from each other and reinforce each other in w ork ing tow ard their goals. Note that w hile mak ing a change is one thing, stick ing to it is something else, therefore, maintaining a change requires continued commitment until the change becomes a part of your life, lik e brushing your teeth or w ashing your hair. People, w ho can maintain or engage in efforts to change their behaviour and do it for 6 to 8 w eek s, are more lik ely to be able to support that effort longer term. Self-monitoring or track - ing seems to be critical for almost every sort of behaviour change that includes jotting dow n the foods you eat, k eeping an exercise diary or mak - ing a record of your sleeping patterns. Monitoring yourself might feel lik e a burden, but it’ s one of the best predictors of successful change. Make sure to have a plan to get back on track if you start to slip. If you feel that your motivation is diminishing, think back and remind yourself w hy the change w as important to you in the first place. Maybe you w anted to have more stamina, feel better, to be able to play w ith grandchildren. Recalling these personal reasons can encourage you to get back on track . Of course, you don’t need a new year to mak e healthy changes; you can mak e them any time of the year. But New Year’s is an opportunity to think about the improvements you’d lik e to make and then tak e concrete steps to achieve them. Set realistic goals, develop an action plan and set it in motion. Make your new year a healthy one. ● Racheal Masibo, Assistant Lecturer at St John’s University of Tanzania ( SJUT)-School of Nursing, Dodoma Tanzania. Email: rack elmasibo@ yahoo.com Mobile: 0717513598