MOROGORO councillors have approved the expenditure of 200m/- collected from local revenue sources to complete the construction of health centres as part of the implementation of Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa's directives. The councillors met recently after Morogoro Regional Commissioner (RC) Loata Ole Sanare wanted them to meet, discuss and take various steps to finalise the construction of two health centres of Mkuyuni and Duthumi as well as the construction of a district hospital. After the municipal council chairperson, Mr Kibena Kingo, opened the meeting, the RC asked regional administrative secretary (RAS) Emmanuel Kalobelo to report on the implementation of development projects in Morogoro Municipal Council. “The agenda presented was in line with Mr Majaliwa's directives he had issued when he visited the council in September last year, which included a directive to renovate Mkyuni and Duthumi health centres as well as the construction of the district hospital.” Morogoro Municipal Council District Executive Director (DED) Rehema Bwasi in response to the Prime Minister's directives said the council had planned to raise 300m/- for the completion of the construction of Mkyuni and Duthumi health centres as well as the district hospital. Ms Bwasi explained further that despite the council’s plan to collect 300m/- they were able to collect only 200m/- which would be spent on the completion of the projects, including the district hospital being constructed in Mvuha to enable residents to access better health services. "In heeding the Prime Minister's directives Mkuyuni Health Centre’s old doors have been removed and will be replaced by 67 new ones and the work is going on well and will be completed in due time," said Ms Bwasi. Mr Kingo said the council would ensure all major development projects were completed before the council was dissolved. However, he asked the RC and RAS to support the DED as he did not get any cooperation from some heads of departments. "As the council, we will take disciplinary action against officials who are obstacles according to municipal council regulations,” said Mr Kingo. Speaking at the meeting, the RC was surprised to see councillors not participating in the planning for the implementation of development projects, while they were the representatives of the people in their areas. He also expressed his dissatisfaction with the implementation of the Prime Minister's directives, as they were not implemented on time as the government had issued 400m/- for the renovation of Mkuyuni and Duthum health centres, but the work had reached only 80 per cent. "We have now agreed after getting funds, the construction should be completed by February 21, 2020 and for anyone who will be an obstacle to this strict disciplinary measures will be taken against them," remarked the RC. He stressed that Mr Majaliwa’s directives were to have the centres completed by October 31, 2019 to allow residents to start accessing health services, stressing that the funds provided by the government were sufficient.