SIMBA SC second choice goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya, who saved a crucial penalty to send his side into the 2020 Mapinduzi Cup final, said he is 100 per cent sure that they will win the title. A 3-2 post-match spot kicks victory against the then defending champions Azam FC, was enough for Simba to earn a ticket of facing Mtibwa Sugar in the epic finale tomorrow at Amaan Stadium in Unguja. Azam were dethroned and denied a chance to claim the silverware for the fourth time consecutively and became the second Mainland Premier League side to bid farewell from the contest, joining Young Africans. It was the second semifinals match to be judged via penalty shootouts after the clash between Yanga and Mtibwa Sugar at the same venue on Thursday, which ended 4-2 in favour of the latter. Speaking after the game, Kakolanya said that he is 100 per cent sure that Simba will win the title and be crowned the new champions. “Generally, it was a difficult game as you saw it but we kept on pushing hoping to get goals until the game ended scoreless. I never expected that it will end in such a fashion for penalties to be played,” Kakolanya said. He added: “I was not afraid when the match ended 0-0 and heading to penalties because basing on my abilities, out of five spot kicks, I am capable to save at least two shots hence I knew that it will be like that.” Moreover, the former Yanga shot stopper lauded massive teamwork displayed by his colleagues on the pitch during the match, while requesting more fans to turn up on the finals day to give them back up. Asked whether the right time has come for him to take over the first choice goalkeeping roles over his counterpart Aishi Manula, Kakolanya said both of them are good shot stoppers such that the decision to choose who to start entirely depends on the team’s Head Coach. Simba Assistant Coach Selemani Matola said they deserved to win the game and is looking forward to the final clash against Mtibwa Sugar. “We had a chance to finish the game in normal period of play without letting it go into penalties as we created lots of scoring opportunities and dominated the entire game, only that they (Azam) had a good defending approach,” Matola said. He also disclosed that the tournament is giving them good warm-ups ahead of their coming Mainland Premier League matches. However, Azam goalkeeper Razack Abalora who smartly saved two penalties from midfielder Sharaf Shiboub and striker Meddie Kagere said they were not lucky on the day to win the game. Queried what he told Kagere before the Rwandan took his shot of which he saved, Abalora replied that it was just a mind game trying to put him (Kagere) out of focus. Simba SC squad: Beno Kakolanya, Shomari Kapombe, Mohammed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni, Pascal Wawa, Jonas Mkude, Hassan Dilunga/Rashid Juma, Sharaf Shiboub, Meddie Kagere, Ibrahim Ajib/John Bocco and Francis Kahata/Luis Miquissone. Azam FC squad: Razack Abalora, Nicolas Wadada, Bruce Kangwa, Yakubu Mohammed, Abdallah Heri/Oscar Maasai, Bryson Raphael, Joseph Mahundi, Masoud Abdallah ‘Cabaye’, Shaaban Iddi Chilunda/ Abalkassim Hamisi, Obrey Chirwa/Donald Ngoma and Iddi Suleiman/Iddi Kipagwile.