RURAL Energy Board (REB) Chairman, Julius Kalolo, has directed local manufacturers of the electrical cables lined up for Rural Electrification Project Phase three, round one, to ensure that the materials are on site before next month. He gave the directive after his inspection tour of electrical cables manufacturing companies - Kilimanjaro Cables, MCL and Europe Industries (Tropical) all from the city. Advocate Kalolo said the contractors had heaped blame on the manufacturers for delays in supplies of electric cables. “I have decided to meet with the manufacturing companies to see how best we will address the challenge as it has come to our attention that they fail to meet their tender terms,” he said. He added that the major challenges on timely completion of round one of the third phase of the rural electrification project was shortage of electric cables, for which manufacturers and suppliers must come up with a lasting solution. The REB chairman said most projects were stuck due to lack of electric cables and the manufacturing companies run short of stock. “MCL said they will deliver the ordered stock by February to all sites, but they cannot take up new orders for the time being,” said Adv Kalolo. Moreover, as for Tropical company, they do not have orders of the electrical cables from the rural electrification contractors; there are for Tanesco. “The electric cables are available, but the problem is, the contractors have booked from one manufacturer who is being overburdened by the orders and thus failing to deliver orders as required. On his part, Director of Europe Industry, Mr Charles Mlawa, advised Rural Electrification Project Phase Three, Round One contractors to count on them when in need of cables and transformers. On his part, Director of the REB, Eng Styden Rwebangira, said in most rural projects they visited, they witnessed poles being fixed, the problem being electric cables. He said the government decided to empower local manufacturing companies by suspending importation of the electric cables among other equipment, wanting the companies to increase production to meet the market demand. Acting REA Director General, Eng Amosi Maganga, said it had come to their attention that contractors had given the orders to one company which can’t cope with the bulk demand while others had none.