“CCM imelegeza Masharti ya Biashara kwa nia ya kuwaondolea bugdha wananchi!” With this former President Ali Hassan Mwinyi’s famous “Ruksa for Business” speech of the early 1990s, the liberalization of electronic media walked the talk! Radio Tanzania Dares-Salaam (RTD), with many of the existing media professionals, became the main cow to be milked by everyone! Lucky enough, Tanzania School of Journalism (TSJ), the sole and classic grooming source of journalists, was still there (at Ilala shamba) and able to feed all those newly print and electronic media mushrooming across the country, especially within the city of Dar-es-Salaam. Slowly but surely, a new generation of media personalities and broadcasters emerged, with names like; Abubakar Liongo, Rahel Mhando, Shomari Maganga, Jacqueline Kombe, Isaac Gamba (late), Neema Mbuja, Sunday Shomari, Mary Magawe etc, highlighting the Radio and TV stations. Right from the same batch of broadcasters, one of the unforgettable name to the ears and eyes of many Tanzanians for the past two and half decades is; IDD LUDOVICK LIGONGO, a Radio/TV Personality and Communications Expert, now at the Voice of America (VOA) in Washington DC, USA. Idd Ligongo is a house-hold name in Tanzania, a true all-rounder in a real sense of having many talents and wishes. “I ‘m a Cartoonist, Footballer, Actor, Journalist and a wishful ‘Pilot!” Idd was born in Kigomain, his parents are the Mzee Ludovick Ligongo (a retired civil servant) and the late Mama Kashide Ramadhani Katoba “a vivil servant and smartest lady! She was my everything, in such a way that, her sudden death during my teenage period affected me a lot” The young Idd grew-up right in Dar-es-Salaam, attending different schools. He started at Magomeni Primary School but later on moved to Mzimuni Primary School within Kinondoni District. Whereas, for his further education Idd attended Masjid Qubah Secondary School and JKT Jitegemee High School. Idd’s first talent (drawing) emerged while he was still in Primary Schools. “I used to draw cartoons and short story illustrations for several local papers and magazines. Many recognized this part of my talent, including my Art teacher Charles Mbwana.” It was at JKT Jitegemee where his love for both football and acting was kindled in him “I played for the school team as well as school competitions (Umiseta). At the same time, as an actor, we even formed our group of actors!” After graduation, Idd joined the famous Kaole Sanaa Group, the source of many Tanzanian actors up-to-date. Through his role in those series, Idd’s acting name of “Biko” emerged and became part of his actual names, underlining his second talent. While at Mzimuni Primary School, a class visit to Radio Tanzania headquarters at Pugu Road, induced his love for broadcasting. With such memories at the back of his head, Idd went on to join the Tanzania School of Journalism, which later changed to School of Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Dares-Salaam. It was in early 2000, while Idd was still studying at the School of Journalism and acting for Kaole Sanaa Group, when he met (at the Karimjee Hall ‘discussing about freedom of Press.’) with the Managing Director of ITV & Radio One, Ms. Joyce Mhaville. There, she gave Idd the nod to join ‘mjengoni.’ “I will endlessly cherish that moment because my talk with Ms. Mhaville cleared my future! I would practically say that the lady laid a carpet for me to walk on!” Idd joined ITV & Radio One and within a short period of time, his voice and face became quite familiar across Tanzanian house-hold through ITV & Radio One. In need of new venture after five years at the ITV & Radio One, Idd moved on to join the Fema TV Talk Show (a part of Femina Hip Ltd). As one of the young role models, Idd Ligongo (together with Rebecca Gyumi) hosted the shows featuring young people, experts, celebrities and politicians discussing all issues relating to youth lifestyles. “Fema TV Talk Show helped me to widen my perspective in all aspect of life, including knowing my own country better.” Once again, by 2010, after half a decade with Fema TV Show, Idd made a move for another new venture in the USA, “joining my wife and continuing with studies for my Master Degree in Communication at the Wichita State University, in Kansas.” By 2014, the Voice of America (VOA) in Washington DC, was Idd Ligongo’s next stop to fulfil his broadcasting talent and career. There, he works as VOA Swahili presenter and Service Correspondent, reporting from different parts of the USA as well as other parts of the world. Idd Ligongo (with his wife, Mary Mzubwa Ndaro) are blessed with three children (Faith, Delgado and Ibra). “Been in the USA for a decade now, I still feel almost everything I acquired in Tanzania to be the key to my today’s existence. Truly, I’m more Tanzanian today than ever! In fact, ‘Ukiwa ndani ya Tanzania unaweza chukulia poa, ila nakuambia Tembea Uone, na Utajua Tanzania ni ya Kipekee!” It’s almost two decades now since I had an opportunity to ‘ve known and work (while producing Fema TV Talk Show) with this all-rounder artist, who is also a hard-working devoted broadcaster, smart and a person I could always rely on. A true role model for many in Tanzania and across the world. Trust me, IDD LIGONGO our representative at the Voice of America (VOA) in Washington DC is worthy to be illustrated! ● David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/ producer based in Dar-es-Salaam.. matatizomedia@gmail.com www.matatizomedia.com