FOR a long time, I have been writing in my sports columns the importance of establishing soccer academies for training, from tender age, our future soccer stars in basic football. I have also repeatedly frowned on our clubs’ massive reliance on cheap, street made soccer players most of whom think kicking around the ball on the pitch and scoring here and there is all that a club needs from them. But much as I have debased street made soccer players that does not, however, mean that among such players there is no one that can rise and become a respected, professional soccer player for say, a top flight European club. The point is, I have debased such players because getting such players into the professional rank is extremely difficult given the manner they learnt the game, through the streets. The difference between players who have gone through well established and scientifically run soccer academies and those who have learnt the game through the streets is that the latter lack basic football, which is very critical for any meaningful match/ And secondly, more often than not, street trained footballers have attitude problems. Most players who have gone through well run soccer academies don’t have attitude problems because such problems were dealt with during their tender age. To understand how serious attitude problems are both for the player and the club, for Simba and Young Africans fans may have come across players, in their respective clubs, who are very talented, but have ‘allergies for problems.’ In short, these are players who play when they want to. They are given to what is called malingering. Such players don’t consider themselves responsible to their fans, let alone clubs which pay their salaries. In short, they tend to consider themselves bigger than the club or in the case of the national soccer team, bigger than the country they represent. You rarely come across such players among those who have gone through well run soccer academies because, as I have already noted, such problems were dealt with when they were still in their tender age. But there are few players who did not go through any soccer academy and but learnt the game through the streets. However, such players succeeded to join top flight professional clubs abroad not because they were talented, but because they had the right attitudes. In short, as long as a player has good education and good attitudes, he can play for top flight professional soccer clubs in the world even if he had learnt the game through the streets. Such players include Leicester City’s Jamie Vardy, Liberia’s George Weah, who played for Monaco in France and AC Milan in Italy and closer home, former Young Africans player, Shabani Nonda from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), who played for Monaco and our own Simon Msuva. The foregoing players succeeded and later joined professional ranks abroad despite learning their game in the streets because they had the right attitudes. An Indian writer but who since became an American citizen and who authored an inspirational book, titled: YOU TOO CAN WIN, Kesh Khera, asks what does it take for a person to succeed in life? Is it high education, say a degree holder? He says, no, there are many such degree holders out there but who have failed. But what about talent? He says no, there are many talented people out there, but who have failed. What then makes or breaks a person, call it kutoboa in Kiswahili? Khera says it’s one’s attitudes. He says attitudes is the deciding factor in one’s success or otherwise. Again, for Young Africans and Simba fans, they all know Simon Msuva. After the player joined a Moroccan club, he returned home after two months to play for Taifa Stars and his game was completely different from what he had had when he was turning out for Young Africans! Msuva is presently a completely different player, more aggressive and disciplined. But it is the same disciplined player who used to turn out for Young Africans. In short, Msuva succeeded much as he did not go through a well, established soccer academy because of his right attitudes. Msuva knows what he wants in life. To succeed through football and he has decided to throw his all in the game. The other day he said the only places he knows in the city he resides in Morocco is the football ground where he trains with his club and the super market where he buys his provisions. After training, Msuva says, he spends his time watching football in his living room. In short, Msuva does not know night life in a Moroccan city. Had he wanted night life in Morocco, Msuva would have long been back at his former club just as his predecessors have done for Simba and Young Africans. We can all recall this Simba player—Haruna Moshi, who returned from a playing stint with a foreign club in Europe and when they asked him why he had abandoned the club, he said he was being paid very little money. And when they asked him how much he was earning per month, his response was ten thousand dollars! We all know there is not a single player in this country who is getting that money which is around 20m/-. But that Simba player said the money was too little for him. By the way, that was over seven years ago! • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through: tagalileattilio@yahoo. co.uk 0754279655