PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Thursday made a mini cabinet reshuffle after firing Home Affairs Minister, Kangi Lugola over a dubious 1trl/- deal involving the ministry and a foreign company. It was yet another dark day for the Home Affairs portfolio after yet another questionable big-money deal prompted President Magufuli to sack minister Lugola publicly. The president’s wrath also fell on the Commissioner General of Fire and Rescue Force Thobias Andengeye, who was relieved of his duties, with Permanent Secretary Major General Jacob Kingu stepping down as well. Chief Secretary John Kijazi announced later on the day that President Magufuli has reshuffled his cabinet with the Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment) George Simbachawene replacing the sacked Lugola as Minister for Home Affairs. Dr Magufuli also appointed Ilala lawmaker Mussa Azzan a new Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office Union and Environment. Major General Kingu who resigned from his Permanent Secretary post on Wednesday, has been appointed new ambassador, alongside Commissioner General of the Prison Service, Phaustine Kasike, and Dr John Simbachawene from President’s Office, State House. The Chief Secretary, Mr Kijazi said the three diplomats will be assigned new stations in the near. Earlier on the day, Tanzanians woke up to the shocking news, broke up by President Magufuli, that entails the signing of a dubious contract between the Ministry of Home Affairs and a yet-to-be known party from Romania worth 408million Euros (over 1tril/-). Addressing the nation when inaugurating the new houses for Prison wardens, President Magufuli said he had received resignation letter from the Home Affairs minister and signed it immediately. “He has submitted his letter of resignation and I have already approved it, Mr Lugola I really admire you, you are my student, and my friend but when it comes to work and with regards to what has happened I cannot tolerate it,” he revealed. The Head of State insisted according to the country’s laws such contract should only be signed by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. “I’m even wondering to see them (Lugola and Andengenye) here, I thought they would have vacated the offices by now,” the president vented his anger on the duo. “I am also aware that the chain has other staff members from the office of the Attorney General (AG) and others in the ministry of Home Affairs under the Fire and Rescue Brigade,” he noted as he urged measures against all the culprits. Dr Magufuli revealed some officers from the AG office took advantage of Prof Kilangi’s absence in the wake of a family tragedy following the passing away of his wife, to approve the dubious deal. President Magufuli instructed the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to probe the deal so that appropriate actions can be taken. “We all know that only the parliament can approve budgets, what has been done is completely wrong and I say no, we can’t run the country like that,” charged Dr Magufuli. “You can’t just go abroad and sign contracts of this kind by yourself without following the laid down procedures, under my administration, this isn’t acceptable at all,” he insisted. The president further revealed that each member of the Tanzanian delegation that went abroad for signing of the contract was being paid 800 Euros as sitting allowance per day. He noted among the commitment entered provided that in case the pact is terminated, all tasks that would be underway should be accomplished. He commended the Major Gen Kingu for taking responsibility and tendering resignation over the matter, saying his hard work would be remembered all the time. Dr Magufuli reiterated his call to all appointees that, if they still want to work for the government, they have to fully follow his instructions. “If you still want to work under me do what I want, truth must be told no matter the status of our friendship,” he said in a bitter tone that attracted the attention of the crowd. Speaking shortly after Dr Magufuli’s speech, Mr Lugola who is the MP for Mwibara Constituency in Mara region thanked the president for trusting him and appointing him to his cabinet. He said the president has taken right steps that aimed at improving performance in line with the fifth phase government’s spirit and pledged to remain active and support the government to achieve its goals. “I have received the decision with a clear heart, I am really grateful to the president for giving me the opportunity to serve in his government, therefore I will remain a supporter of President Magufuli’s administration as a member of parliament and loyal citizen,” he said. The sacked minister called upon the remaining members of the cabinet to work hard for the interest of the country given the fact that they have been trusted among a large number of MPs. In another development, Dr Magufuli has extended for two years tenure in the office for seven envoys. They are Dr Emmanuel Nchimbi (Brazil), Asha-Rose Migiro (United Kingdom), George Madafa (Italy) Lieutenant General Paul Ignace Mella (Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Job Masima (Israel), Benedict Mashiba (Malawi), Sylvester Mabumba (Comoro).