NATIONAL beach volleyball teams are gearing up for the Group 6 Africa Zone V Beach Volleyball Championship, scheduled to take place at Mbalamwezi Hotel in Dar es Salaam from January 9-13th this year. The teams have stepped up intensive drills in Dar es Salaam ready for the women championship that will also be used as the qualifiers for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) Secretary General, Alfred Selengia told the ‘Sunday News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations are on top gear for them to host the event. He said that the two national women teams have started intensive training at Mbalambwezi since December 27, 2019 to get ready for the competition. “We are grateful to God that all players are in good health and shape… they all reported into the training and are training aggressively determined to lift the title,” he said. Players forming the two teams under Head Coach Selengia are Jonia Jovin who pair Evelyn Albert and second team is Hellen Richard and Beatrice Soka. He said that all players are talented and experienced, having what it takes to fight for the title. Confederation of Africa Volleyball (CAVB) has honoured Tanzania with an opportunity to host the women’s category battle. Uganda hosted men’s qualifier in Entebbe from December 19-23th last year that brought together teams from Kenya, Sudan, Tanzania and hosts Uganda. Tanzanian pair of Neeke David and Ford Edward who formed first team and Shukuru Ally who paired Alhaji Said impressed to finish at the top of the tournament and sailed through to second round joined by Kenya, who finished second. “Our focus will remain to qualify for the Africa tournament so that we can fight for the Olympic place. We have already taken one step forward with men’s category and now, we have to do it for women,” he said. He added that they have to use well home advantage and win the tournament. However, Selengia said they cannot do everything by their own; saying they need support from companies, institutions, sponsors and sports well-wishers to help the team financially and morally. Teams that will compete at Mbalamwezi beach are Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and hosts Tanzania.