ONE of the mobile courts of the Judiciary of Tanzania which was recently launched on Friday moved to Biafra Grounds in Kinondoni District, Dar es Salaam, where 100 cases were heard and determined, a new system which is considered simple and efficient in timely dispensation of justice. The Mobile Court Project Manager, Resident Magistrate Moses Ndelwa, said that most of the cases that were heard related to special operations. The accused persons were charged with counts relating to causing nuisance by discharging waste water, contrary to the Public Health Act. "In partnership with Kinondoni District administration, we are dealing with those who engage in discharging waste water and, thus, violating health regulations. So today we are hearing 100 cases and any other cases will be heard if there will be any other suspects who will be brought," he said. According to him, the Biafra ground session would accommodate all cases surrounding nearby wards and areas, while in some other wards like Ubungo, the health coordination officer would direct them on how to reach the areas concerned and not for the people to move towards where the court is. "These courts have been instrumental in disposing of cases that are determined at primary court levels. About 100 cases have been heard and determined,” the manager pointed out. A mobile court conducts cases all triable by primary courts, including cases relating to administration of estates, marriage disputes and divorce. The court also determines appeals of Ward Tribunals and cases relating to special operations that are conducted at the District Court and Resident Magistrate's Court. He called on Tanzanians to respond positively and support the operation of the court, saying it had come at the right time and was a salvation to them. "Citizens are hereby encouraged to use this opportunity by filing cases to these courts and their cases will be heard promptly. We are moving successfully as there was no case that exceeded one month before being disposed of. We strongly urge them to come to our courts," he urged. The mobile court was established in the country's judicial system in 2019, with the month of July on the part of Mwanza and month of September on the part of Dar es Salaam. On the Dar es Salaam side, there are Bunju, Kibamba, Chanika and Buza duty stations, while in Mwanza, centres are located in Buhongwa, Igoma and Buswelu. During the 2018/2019 judicial calendar year, the Judiciary of Tanzania received two vehicles used as Mobile Court to conduct court sessions in a bid to speed up determination of cases and improve delivery of judicial services in Tanzania in general. The main goal is to draw judicial services closer to the people and provide timely justice. In addition, the court is aimed at reducing costs of citizens following judicial services away from the areas in which they live, since a Mobile Court has the capacity of reaching different groups of people and communities. Court officials say the mobile courts are to be used in areas with shortages of court buildings, notably in Dar es Salaam and Mwanza regions. The Judiciary plans to expand the scope of this service by establishing other centres in the remaining regions in different phases. On February 6, 2019, when Tanzania was marking the Law Day celebrations, signifying the official start of judicial activities for the year, President John Magufuli launched one of the mobile courts worth over 470m/- financed by the World Bank to start operating in the designated regions. Senior Judiciary Officer Eva Nkya is quoted as briefing President Magufuli during the launch that the mobile court will be used to receive and preside over several cases at the primary level, noting that 177,614 cases were filed at primary courts all over the country. The number was equivalent to 68 per cent of all cases. According to Ms Nkya, who is the Director of Case Management Division, the mobile court will also be used to carry out operations against illegal fishing and delivering education to the public.