TANZANIA Railway Corporation (TRC) has launched a special sustainable safety programme with the aim of preventing accidents, destruction to railway infrastructures and eliminating sabotage acts. Acting TRC General Manager, Mr Focus Sahani told reporters in Dar es salaam, recently that they reached the decision after realizing an increase in destructive acts, posing great risks to their railway transportation. “We regret to say that after reviving the Northern Railway route that is from Dar es Salaam to Korogwe, Tanga to Moshi in December last year, it is obvious that some people were not happy with this step… there has been a number of serious destructive acts done to the railway and its infrastructure, which could lead to accidents if immediate actions are not taken on time,” he said. Mr Sahani said that some individuals with evil motives usually put big stones on the rail with some also taking away pieces of bar and some unlock the rail nuts to cause accidents, adding: “This campaign is coming especially to educate the public how to maintain safety in railway areas… importance of protecting railway infrastructures and measures to be taken against those who will keep on disobeying the law.” On his part, TRC Section Commander In-charge ACP Stanley Kulyamo said that in December last year, Police arrested three people along the Dar es Salaam-Moshi route with stolen railway accessories. “It is very sad that instead of supporting our government in all its efforts to revive this railway route, which had stopped working for almost two decades, some evil acts are being planned and carried out to weaken the State. However, we are well organised and will not allow few individuals to thwart our efforts,” he added. Commenting, Ms V eronica Sudai, TRC’s Legal-in-Charge pointed out that Railway Act No 10 of 2017 states that anyone who destroys or sabotages a railway infrastructure within its reserves is liable to pay 50m/ -as a fine or serve jail term not less than 3 years. However, according to TRC’ Technical Security-inCharge, Engineer Maizo Martin, ignorance on the part of the public was one of the causes of the accidents, and urged that such similar campaigns should continue to educate residents on what to do once they approach a railway reserve.