THE country’s industrial drive continues to gain momentum as 96 more producers receive standard mark licenses and certification for their products, an initiative aimed at boosting quality and market share locally and internationally. Such manufacturers comprise 27 small entrepreneurs, ranging from food to packaging products whereby one of them falls under the quality management system. Speaking on the sidelines of an event to grant the certification, the manufacturers disclosed that the Tanzania Bureau of Standard (TBS) mark will not only increase recognition of products but provide them with an opportunity to venture beyond the country’s boundaries. A representative of Vision Control and Superintendence Limited (VCSL), Mr Awumsuri Mongi, observed that the process had, among other things, added value to their services and increased confidence of the customers. Responsible for cargo inspection at the Dar es Salaam Port, the company obtained a system certification, assuming the role of a marketing tool in promoting their services across the country. He called upon the public to subscribe to their products to acquire quality services and assurance of safety, considering that the company has been granted certification by TBS. The Director of Habanero Products, Ms Indy Plahe, revealed that being able to acquire the licence and certification of products is not an easy task, expressing gratitude to President John Magufuli for readiness to ensure small entrepreneurs acquired necessary criteria for boosting their businesses. “Personally, I am thankful for obtaining the certificate; this clearly demonstrates bright prospects for our products which will be able to sell even outside the country,” said Ms Plahe. TBS Director General, Dr Athuman Ngenya noted that the licence and certificates will help manufacturers to build confidence and acceptance of their products to a wider public. Similarly, the products will gain a competitive advantage as well as penetrate into the East African market without having to go through further inspections. Dr Ngenya pointed out that the task of registering food, cosmetics and building emerged due to the small amendments in the Finance Act of 2019. “In the new law, it is required that food products or cosmetics will not be allowed into the Tanzania market before being certified and registered by TBS. “Likewise, premises or buildings used for manufacturing, selling and storage of food and cosmetics and vehicles used to transport the goods,” noted the DG. He urged the manufacturers to be good ambassadors in the use of standard marks in realising the country’s vision of becoming a middle income economy via industrialisation. He also urged the manufactures to maintain the spirit by producing products with required standards in order to protect the health of consumers. According to the DG, the entrepreneurs will continue to access the inspection and testing services within the next three years.