THE list of public leaders who have not yet declared their assets and liabilities forms to the Ethics Secretariat may be made public today. The Secretariat told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that it was in a meeting to assess the exercise of collecting the declaration forms, whose deadline was December 31, last year. In a telephone interview, Secretariat Commissioner Justice (rtd) Harold Nsekela said they dedicated the whole day (yesterday) to evaluate and compile a report on the exercise. “We are now in a meeting, call me maybe tomorrow, when I will be in a position to give you information,” Justice Nsekela said when this paper sought to know the total number of leaders who failed to return the forms to the Secretariat by the set deadline. It is now one week since the deadline for leaders to declare their wealth for 2019 expired, and the trend showed that there was a high response two days before the deadline, President John Magufuli having complied by the requirement. As the deadline approached, some of them returned the forms personally while others sent their representatives to hand over the documents on their behalf. Declaring assets and liabilities is stipulated in the Public Leadership Code of Ethics Act. The president’s compliance apparently sent a message to other leaders to do the same before the deadline. The Head of State assigned his Private Secretary, Mr Ngusa Samike to submit his forms on his behalf. The ‘Daily News’ witnessed scores of people representing their bosses flocking to the Dar es Salaam zonal office. Justice Nsekela said the number was high at every zonal office as leaders continued to return the forms, describing the situation as ‘satisfactory.’ The situation compelled the Secretariat to extend working hours up to 6pm in order to give more time to leaders to return the forms. He explained that after collecting the forms, the secretariat would analyse the information critically. By December 20, a total of 2,369 leaders had returned the forms against 13,699 who were supposed to do so.