SIMBA continue to command the Premier League run looking superior in striking force, solid wall and marksmanship as the 20-team league goes close to the half way. Having played 14 matches, Simba are above the rest with 35 points. They have fired home 29 times while conceding only five goals, thus giving them the best goal difference of + 24, which is unlikely to be surpassed soon. Overall Simba look to parade the best squad in terms of both attacking and defending. But, out of blue there are agitators Coastal Union, who seem to have disrupted Simba run to supremacy when counting from back. The Tanga-based side; Coastal Union have beaten Simba performance in the last five-match count by two points. The last five-match run saw Coastal Union grabbing all 15 maximum points after winning all five while Simba became second with 13 points after winning four and drawing one match against their traditional rivals Young Africans. Azam who have hauled 10 points in their last five-match run, are third most successful in this discipline. They have won three, drew and lost once. Almost with similar performance are Mtibwa Sugar who have won thrice, drew and lost once to end up their last five-match run with 10 points. Namungo FC are the top-placed debutants at the fourth place. They have won thrice, but lost twice to end their last five-match campaign with 9 points. The Southern Tanzanian side are slight superior to Young Africans in winning despite having the same 9 points. Yanga have won twice and drew thrice in their last five matches. On reverse, the worst performers in the last fivematch run are Ndanda FC who are still limping at the relegation red line. Ndanda garnered a single point in the run having lost four matches and drew once in their last five matches. Slight above Ndanda in the worst performers’ kit are Mbeya City who salvaged two points from two draws and three losses. Bottom-placed Singida United garnered three points from one win and 4 losses. Despite being placed fourth in the league table with 25 points, Yanga equal Simba in defending. Like their traditional rivals, Yanga have lost only once, but four draws compared to two stamped by their rivals, makes them separate that far. Four teams; Simba, Azam, Coastal Union and Tanzania Prisons have stamped two draws in their entire campaign so far. Tanzania Prisons could end the 2019 unbeaten had it not been for two matches against Yanga and Coastal Union. The Prison warders lost 1-0 in their both matches. The 2019-20 Premier League debutants; Namungo FC, Polisi Tanzania and JKT Tanzania are going on steadily at the middle of nowhere. At the 8th position, Namungo are the bestplaced debutants with 22 points. They have played 13 matches, won seven, drew once and lost five matches. Standing 9th overall are JKT Tanzania also with 22 points garnered from six wins and four draws. They have so far lost five matches from 15-game outings. Polisi Tanzania are not far from fellow debutants at the 11th position. They have played 14 matches, won six matches, drew two and lost other six games.