A STATISTICIAN General Dr Albina Chuwa has urged members of Gender Statistics Technical Working Group (GSTWG) to ensure that they deliver their expected outputs successfully to the public in Making Every Woman and Girl Count Goal project. Opening a three-day meeting taking place at National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) offices in Dodoma, Dr Chuwa told the participants that the task ahead was to ensure that Tanzania become a champion in gender statistics in the continent. “We always aim higher. We want to make Tanzania number one in this area of gender statistics by showing the world that we can deliver and not just deliver, but come up with minimum set of gender indicators and modules, which ensure that we are successful in implementing this project,” she pointed out. She equally reminded the members that the inputs they were going to have, would tell facts and become evidence to address gender inequality and gaps in terms of implementing various gender equality programmes to enable policy and decision maker have a base to spring from. “As technicians, we are supposed to produce enough data that will inform decision maker and policy formulation and reflect on what the project would attain to Tanzanians,” she added. Dr Chuwa noted that the elaborate data will be used to evaluate the implementation of national development plans like Zanzibar V ision 2020 and Mainland Tanzania Development V ision 2025 as well as global agenda. At international arena in terms of ongoing gender programmes like the Beijing Platform of 1995 and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), she said that they all require data that tells more about Tanzania’s situation. Expanding, she emphasized that the members have a long way to go to ensure that the country comes up with Minimum Gender Indicator and Gender modules. The Statistician noted that the committee that will be integrated in the coming National Statistics Masterplan (TSMP) that is now in the pipeline. She further said that the UN-Women supported project has a key role to play in data production, especially on technology and tapping opportunities from different sources of data. “We are currently embarking on production of big data working closely with data scientists,” she added. Dr Chuwa asserted that training of young Statisticians as data scientists was very crucial in helping the National Statistics Offices (NSOs) to make them use technologies and retrieve data, where necessary. According to Dr Chuwa NBS has formed a technical working group that brings together different ‘ brains’ from Ministries, Departments and agencies, and expects to expand further by also putting onboard non-state actors. “We must think of bringing on board other actors to tap in their opportunities as they will bring new ideas on how to go about it,” she said. On data use, the Statistician maintained that they have a role to make sure that they find a way of simplified data that could help policy and decision makers to make informed and right decisions on resource allocation and other requirements needed by the people. During the meeting the committee members would discuss and deliberate on Minimum Set of Gender Indicators referred to as Tanzania Gender Equality and Women Empowerment Indicators (T-GEWE) and presentation on National Plan of Action for Ending V iolence Against Women and Children (NPA-V AWC). Other presentations included an overview of Tanzania Statistical Masterplan (TSMP), Gender Module, Coordination in Production of Gender Statistics; and Compilation of Gender Statistics. The main objective of the UN-Women funded ‘ Making Every Woman and Girl Count’ project was to ensure that gender statistics are available, accessible to inform on policy making and deliver gender equality and women’s empowerment. The project has three outcomes namely enabling policy environment, data production and data use.