THE excitement, or disappointment related to the results of the latest Form Four examination results, depending on which side one is, are receding into history. For those who made it, the challenge ahead is, at best, to put up a better performance in Form Six examinations in roughly two years’ time, and, at worst, not to be demoted to the category of under-performance, or, worse, absolute failures. The issue has to be viewed critically rather than superficially, given that, with the passage of time, the education sector, which had originally been set on a firm foundation during the pioneer leadership of founding father, President Julius Nyerere, was gradually polluted. The teaching profession, with which Mwalimu Nyerere was personally associated as a practitioner and held in high esteem, was downgraded. One of the most disturbing aspects was for poor examination performers seeking refuge in the teaching profession. This compromised standards, so much so that private schools mushroomed because they hosted relatively better teachers and facilities. Tragically, the private education sub-sector, by virtue of attracting many customers (combining parents and guardians eager to have their children acquire good quality education) attracted the attention of crooks who focused more on financial gain than imparting young men and women with good quality education. Hence the mushrooming of academic outfits that were more of commercial enterprises than service-tuned establishments. Tragically, the rot hasn’t been confined to the system ranging from primary to high school level. It gradually sneaked into colleges and universities. Some of the manifestations of this trend include graduates who don’t fit the bill, some o them being plainly laughable cases. Much as trends like the digital revolution being education sector spoilers if it is misused, its commercialization, coupled with erosion of ethics, have conspired to create a deeply worrisome scenario. Part of the sad story lies in the recent move by the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) to deregister nine academic entities over irregularities that include non-compliance with local, regional and international standards. The move is laudable and should be sustained, for the sake of ensuring that institutions of higher learning are epitomes of honour. It’s a pity, if not a titanic scandal, indeed, that some of the deregistered ones are named in the memory of highly respected religious leaders whose souls should be resting fully in peace.