YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Luc Eymael admitted that his squad is slowly adapting to his philosophy after a convincing performance in their 3-1 win over Singida United at CCM Liti Stadium in Singida on Wednesday. It was a good response from Yanga, who prior to the game, went two-match winless losing essential six points in the process hence their triumph on Wednesday has to some extent brought confidence to the team. Again, it was Eymael’s first win at the helm of the club he joined during the mini-transfer window and it was all smiles from him after pocketing the vital three points. “Yes, to some extent, the players are slowly getting used to my philosophy even though the pitch was bumpy which deprived quality football display from both sides,” Eymael said immediately after the match. He added that his team had clear good chances especially in the first half such that they could have gone for break while leading with more than two goals. “We showed good combinations of play which led to the second and third goal and it is evident that some players added value to the match today (Wednesday),” said him. Commenting further, the Belgian trainer said the victory was a well-deserved by his team while wishing Singida United all the best in their upcoming league games. “I believe they will be able to make it into the league next season and I wish them all the best,” he said. Questioned to comment on the performance by the Ghanaian winger Bernard Morrison who was hugely involved in all the three goals. Eymael said he does not like to give credit to individual players but described him as a good player. “It was his debut game but has shown what he has. When he will be in great form, I am sure that his performance will be much better, it is just unfortunate that such good players joined the club late,” he said. His playmaker Haruna Niyonzima who scored the second goal on the day and his first goal of the season, disclosed that Yanga has a good squad with talented players. “In two past games, we lost because we are still adapting to one another since most members in the team are new hence it takes enough time to get used to each other,” he said. In his response, Singida United coach Ramadhani Nswanzirimo took responsibility for the loss saying he changed the squad which was previously winning games. “It was a bad decision for us to change the winning team on the day and in terms of fitness level, we were poor than our opponents,” he said. Moreover, the former Mbeya City coach revealed that they are yet to get good results from the perfect signings they have made during the brief transfer window. He also lauded his goalkeeper Owen Chaima for making a couple of spectacular saves during the match to prevent his side from conceding more goals. With the victory, Yanga jumped to fourth place on the table with 28 points from 15 games while Singida United are unmoved from their 19th slot on the ladder with 10 points.