IN Serengeti National Park, every year at the end of the rainy season, it’s a breeding period for wildebeests which dwell inside the Greater Serengeti Ecosystem where more than 40,000 calves are born every day. This is a massive and unparalleled addition of members in any community in the wild, but these antelopes which may congregate in one part of Serengeti National Park are able to form a strong contingent with more than 1,500,000 individuals. In the middle of this huge assembly it is very difficult for a mother to protect her calf, but also to recognise or identify it when the group is moving from one position to another. It is even more difficult to trace your loved ones’ whereabouts when this huge assembly is regrouping after coming under attack from hungry predators such as spotted hyenas, cheetahs and lions which target weaker wildebeests, including new born calves. Within this difficult situation, female wildebeests are forced to perform extra duty of controlling, protecting and identifying their calves which are playing carelessly by running from one side of the plain to another, while testing their delicate muscles. It is during this playful moment when most of these calves fall victims to hungry predators such as spotted hyenas, cheetahs and lions which hunt in a well organised group called pride that divides a small prey like this in a cruel manner. While living within this prejudicial culture, a weak and frustrated calf may move from one female to another until it falls into a trap of a group of hungry predators while members of its own community are watching the gruesome killing. In Serengeti, Ngorongoro or Grumeti, few calves which lost their parents are very luck to trace a way back to their mothers and this culture among wildebeests is blamed for leading more than 50 per cent of calves to their death from hungry predators. Knowing the presence of prejudice in their community, each female marks its calf using its tongue with saliva which consist more than 40 different elements capable of producing a unique odour that differentiate the mother from other wildebeests in the community. The mother will also use other chemicals from her own body which are produced by scent glands to mark and differentiate its calf from others of the same age and colour, but also play in the same area. Scientists say immediately after birth the mother marks the calf by leaking it with her tongue which carries a chemical compound containing saliva and more than 40 substances from the saliva gland which emits unique smell which identifies and connects the two in the savannah. This important action is repeated whenever the mother feels like doing it, but most of the calf is chemically baptised during milking when the mother uses different scent glands on her body to increase the bond between the two. Meanwhile, in the tropical forest of Mount Udzungwa National Park a male leopard takes his own way immediately after spending not less than 46 days to impregnate his beautiful partner. This act of selfishness may be considered as a habitual culture of these cats, but by walking away a male leopard leaves all responsibilities of taking care of the pregnancy and the offspring to a lonely female. During a heat period, which last for seven days, nature forces a female leopard to call and surrender herself to a hone male partner who gives her temporary companionship. While overwhelmed with greediness, at the end of the heat period normally the male leopard walks away leaving her into a long time of loneliness. Scientists believe that due to lack of assistance from male partners, more than 50 per cent of all leopards’ cubs fall victims to predators such as spotted hyenas even before they are six months old. As this is happening to the spotted cat, things are totally different in the middle of Serengeti, Katavi, Ruaha, Selous, Tarangire, Mikumi, Mkomazi and other national parks and game reserves where lionesses dwell with their cubs. Tanzania is believed to have between 15,000 and 16,000 lions freely roaming in its savannah wildness. It has been possible to increase their number because of the lions’ way of life in the wild where they build a strong communal group called pride whose permanent members are lionesses. Anywhere they dwell, lionesses do most of their duties together ranging from hunting, defending their family or pride, feeding and taking care of their cubs. Normally a group consists of about six to 10 lionesses that live with one or two brothers and pride owners whose main duties are breeding and defending the pride against others. When many cubs are born the lioness will sniff to choose the strong with more chances to live and take them in a special place, leaving the weaker to die of hunger and thirsty. The hidden place normally is a cave or between large rocks where enemies like African hunting dogs, hyenas, jackals, eagles, other scavengers and predators, including lions. The mother will visit her fellow members to check if the youngest cubs in pride are more than three months old if the chance is not available she will keep her own cubs away until time allows. The main reason for this act is all lactating lionesses feed the cubs indiscriminately which causes the young and weak ones to lose their chance of feeding on nutritious early milk which is important for building strong bones. Then, the mother will lead her cubs to join the pride consisting of other relatives like their sisters, brothers and father. This is the most dangerous time of their new life because in the group there might be young lions not used to cubs so they may kill them as prey. Unlike males, young lionesses are taught how to take care of cubs. On the arrival of these new cubs in the pride while older one go away for hunting normally in a pride lionesses give birth at a different time with two or three in an interval of a short period of time, allowing the rest of the team to perform other duties. One or two grownup lionesses may stay back to feed all the cubs, defend and assisting the young female in taking care of them. If there is no young female in the pride a sick or weak female will stay back to do the job of nursing the cubs while others go out to fetch food for the whole group. If there is no sick member and availability of food within the same area is good one lioness may be asked to stay back to take care of the cubs while the rest go out for hunting. It is said that this mother may show little favouritism to her own cubs. Powered by this kind of brain, elephants are able to communicate with different signs through different movements of their tails, ears, legs and the flexible trunk on the head. During an oestrous period the female sends chemical messages to all neighbouring males to come closer and mount her, but when a young, inexperienced or weak contender approaches her she will automatically chase them while producing infrasound which is able to be picked by a bull browsing six to 10 kilometres away. With knowledge of a short oestrous period consisting of 16 days among elephants, if the desired male doesn’t respond to these calls surprisingly experienced females will join their sisters in these sexual appealing songs until the right bull arrives. After giving birth, the whole group will congregate near a new member and welcome by blowing a huge rumble, but the relationship between a baby elephant and its mother who provides protection and guardianship to the cubs who walk by her side plead for milk by producing a special roar to her provider. rstanslaus@yahoo.com Mobile: 0754362330