POLICE in the country have assured citizens of peaceful New Year celebrations, adding that places of worship, roads and recreation areas would have beefed up security. In separate interviews with ‘Daily News’ on Tuesday Regional Police Commanders said that the force was well prepared to ensure that people celebrate New Year in a peaceful and harmonious atmosphere. Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander Lazaro Mambosasa said that police officers have been deployed to different parts of the region to deal with peace disrupters during the New Year celebrations. He said that, to beef up security in the country’s commercial capital, some cops would patrol on foot, motorcycles, cars and helicopters in case of any emergency. However, Commander Mambosasa called upon the residents to refrain from unofficial gatherings, which have signs of breaking the law. He also reminded them that fireworks are outlawed except for those with special permissions. On his part, Tabora Regional Police Commander Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Barnabas Mwakalukwa said security would be intensified to ensure that people in the region celebrate New Year peacefully. He said, they will conducåt impromptu inspections to all Night Clubs and other recreational centres as part of continued efforts to make a serene atmosphere. “Police will also be stationed around all Churches across the region, because we want to maintain the atmosphere that was observed during Christmas and Boxing Day,” said the RPC, adding that they will have zero tolerance on anyone who will engage in unlawful incidents. ACP Mwakalukwa urged motorists to be cautious and adhere to road traffic laws, while cautioning citizens to observe the country’s laws and avoid all banned practices such as fireworks and burning of tires at New Year’s celebrations. He further reminded motorists to abide by all road safety laws as a way forward to avoiding traffic accidents during New Year celebrations. Tanga Regional Police Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Edward Bukombe said the law enforcers are well prepared to ensure that the year 2020 is welcomed in a peaceful manner. “Tanga has always been safe and we are expecting the same atmosphere during the New Year eve and entire celebrations, we have been reminding all residents to observe peace and unity throughout the day. It is my hope that they will do the same,” he said. “…And for drivers, they shouldn’t drink alcohol and drive, this will help to reduce address road crashes and furthermore save lives of people and their properties,” added SACP Bukombe. Simiyu and Mara Regional Police Commanders (RPC) confirmed that they have patrols including bicycles, motor vehicles, dogs and on foot patrols. In the urban peripheries, community police including auxiliary ones have been provided with capacity building to further sharpen them on how to ensure law and order are maintained during the New Year celebrations. Simiyu RPC, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) William Mkonda reminded the public to leave some family members at home, when they would be out for recreation and worship for security purposes. He also required owners of social halls to ensure that people visiting their premises match capacity of the halls. ACP Mkonda stressed that the police will not tolerate any acts of indecency and breach of peace during the entire time, citing them as burning tires on roads, and throwing stones among others. Equally, he cautioned motorist to abide by the law and refrain from engaging in committing crimes like driving while drunk, and reckless driving. The RPC of Mara, ACP Daniel Shilla cautioned parents to be keen on the safety of their children by ensuring that they are always on guard wherever they go. Meanwhile Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revocatus Malimi has dispelled fears of insecurity during this festive season, saying the government has laid concrete strategies to ensure peaceful celebrations. However, he appealed to the residents to uphold peace and tranquility as they celebrate New Year 2020. “My appeal to all residents is to ensure that national interest prevails. We must ensure that the prevailing peace and tranquility is sustained."