ANNA Zambi, the 16-yearold girl who lost her parents and siblings in a tragic accident last year, aspires to become a lawyer once she finishes college. The soft spoken girl who posted Division II with 20 points in the results released by the National Examination Council of Tanzania (Necta) on Thursday, said she would want to become a lawyer in order to assist people deprived of their rights. In a candid interview with this writer from her auntie’s home here yesterday, Anna said the burning desire of becoming a legal officer started when she was still in Form One when her late father, Mr Lingstone Zambi, was wrongly charged for an offence he had not committed. “I really felt sorry for my father especially what he was going through and upon eventually realising that he hadn’t committed the offence,” recalls Anna, who lost her entire family in a road accident after a private car they were travelling in was swept away by floods following incessant rains that hit parts of Handeni District last year. Anna still remembers how she used to comfort her father in his predicament, saying it instilled in her the desire of becoming a lawyer later in life. “The experience served me well, especially after realising that there are innocent people who get punished for crimes they had not committed,” she said. Anna’s dream of becoming a lawyer could well be on course after the Canossian Sisters freely offered her to study for her Advanced Levels at Canossa High School in Tegeta, Dar es Salaam, this year. Anna is determined to pursue the History Geography and Literature (HGL) combination, a path that will eventually see her realise her dream. “We are ever grateful to the Canossian sisters for offering Anna a chance to realise her dream,” Ms Isabela Lyimo, Anna’s auntie, remarked. While she is excited on joining her new school for her advanced level education, Anna is grateful to the teachers of Mother Teresa of Calcuta Girls Secondary School in Same for supporting her throughout her academic life, especially when she lost her entire family. According to Anna, while it will be a bit complicated to get herself adjusted in her new school, she hopes and prays that there will be few colleagues in school who will continue sympathizing with her following her huge loss. If anything, Anna hopes she will not be subjected to preferential treatment from the rest of her colleagues.