LAST Tuesday, President John Magufuli openly warned the two top brass of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Minister Hamisi Kigwangalla and Principal Secretary Professor Adolf Mkenda, to resolve their misunderstandings within five days, failure to do which he would drop them, pointing out that the situation was compromising efficiency. The warning was given wide coverage, and deservingly so, because, yet again, it is one of the indicators of the determination of the Head of State and the machinery over which he presides, to get State operations conducted seriously, and consistently. Since Day One upon assuming the highest position in the land, he has been steadfast in ensuring that the focus of his appointees MUST be on exemplary, swift service delivery. To that end, any stumbling block s are spoilers and shouldn’t be tolerated. Manifestations to that end include freq uent mini Cabinet reshuffles, as well as changes in top brass rank s of national institutions. The President had made it crystal clear from the very outset that, he wouldn’t brook ineptitude by his appointees. It may be recalled that, before becoming President, it was standard practice for big receptions to be organised for appointees to high profile positions such as Cabinet portfolios. It was because the positions were eq uated to opportunities for the unpatriotic amongst the appointees to manipulate the positions as avenues for corruptibly amassing wealth and peddling their influence in exchange for big-time financial gratitude. The practice was frozen due to the realisation that the appointing authority would not brook it. It didn’t tak e long for President Magufuli’s nononsense approach to manifest itself. He regularly reshuffled the Cabinet and the civil service line-up, dropping those whose performance he felt was unsatisfactory. The situation was such that, individuals appointed to high positions were pitied rather than envied. That’s how it should be, for positions must be agents for the holders to be ardent nation builders rather than personal and family interest operatives ! But in the same way that the success of the President in discharging his obligations is based on teamwork that comprises the Cabinet, officials at lower rank s, including at Cabinet level, must work as closely k nit units as possible. When misunderstandings creep in, efficiency is sure to be compromised. That’s the light in which President Magufuli’s warning to Dr Kigwangalla and Dr Mkenda should be pondered.