PRESIDENT John Magufuli has called upon more Tanzanians to engage in zoo business in order to increase the wildlife population, promote tourism and employment opportunities. The Head of State commended some Tanzanians who are engaging in the zoo business, including Lieutenant General (rtd) Samweli Ndomba who own (Lugari Mini Zoo – Mbinga), Dar es Salaam Zoo, Bahari Zoo and others who have opened zoological parks and wildlife management areas. In a statement availed to the media yesterday by Directorate of Presidential Communication Unit, Dr Magufuli clarified that establishment of zoos was allowed under the Wildlife Conservation Act No 5 of 2009. “Tanzanians have the right of owning wildlife as per laws and regulations and keep them in appropriate areas which can be easily visited by local and foreign tourists,” he said. He cited South Africa as among the countries benefiting from zoo operations by receiving a large number of tourists and creates employment opportunities for its people . “There are so many countries which are gaining a lot from the zoo business, including South Africa... the country is receiving a large number of tourists as well as creating employment and investment opportunities... I don’t see any reason why Tanzanians should not engage in this business while the laws allow them to do so,” he said. He urged wildlife experts to assist Tanzanians to utilize such opportunities, calling upon retired leaders to engage in the business as done by Lt. General Ndomba in Mbinga because there were a number of areas where zoos could be established. Dr Magufuli made the call while addressing Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) officers and game wardens at Rubondo Island. He added that the government was committed to expand and improve tourist sites, noting that over the past four years, the number of national parks had increased from 16 to 22. He said plans were under way to establish other national parks because the tourism sector contributes a lot to the national income and provides jobs to many Tanzanians. Currently Tanzania has 23 zoos, 20 wildlife management areas (WMAs) and six ranches. In the middle of last year, President Magufuli challenged the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism to promote the zoo business to save endangered species. President Magufuli argued that establishment of the business by members of the public will help in relocating endangered species to safe environments. Dr Magufuli expressed his personal interest to open a zoo in future, noting that besides protecting animals, the business also helps its proprietors to generate income.