VALUES of the Zanzibar revolution and later the Union will continue to live on generation by generation if education over the two important national scenarios is emphasized among the youth. The remarks were made yesterday in Dar es Salaam during a forum ahead of commemoration of the Zanzibar Revolution to be held on Sunday this week. Organised by the Office of Zanzibar Second Vice President in Dar es Salaam, the forum aimed at spreading awareness among the citizens in Tanzania Mainland on the Zanzibar revolution. A cross-section of stakeholders, including government leaders and officials, politicians and students participated in the forum. Zanzibar Minister of Information, Tourism and Heritage, Mr Mahmoud Thabit Kombo, stressed that knowledge on the revolution and the union has to be spread among the youth, noting that ignorance on the concept and the union among the youth was one of the great challenges. Mr Kombo stated that the youth should understand the history of the two historical events, noting that in the past they were extensively taught in schools, but that wasn’t the case these days. “The Zanzibar revolution will exist generation by generation if we continue educating the youth on intention and objectives of the concept. If we don’t understand the history of our revolution and the union, we will get lost,” he pointed out, while officially opening the forum. On his part, Minister in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment), Mr George Simbachawene, told the participants that the Union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar was a result of movement during the revolution. “It was due to movement against colonial exploitation during the revolution which led to the idea of uniting the two countries for strengthening the movement. It was the revolution which brought about the necessity for the union,” Mr Simbachawene explained. He called upon experts to deeply explain the link between the revolution and the union so that the public could fully understand it, noting that many presenters during forums have been explaining the linkage between the two shallowly. Presenting a paper on the history of industries in Isles, Mr Saleh Hamad, an expert, said during the revolution in 1964, the Zanzibar government took over 23 industries from colonialists. After the revolution the Zanzibar Government decided to build other 30 industries with the aim of creating youth employment, adding value to agricultural produce and reducing imports.