EARLY this week, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa expressed his dismay over school girl drop out, a problem that prevails in many parts of the country. The Premier, speaking in Pemba Island, Zanzibar, reaffirmed the government’s commitment to ensuring secondary education for all and issued directives to regional and district commissioners to address the vice. Mr Majaliwa, a teacher by profession, also warned men who flirt with adolescent girls and entice them into sexual practices, saying they should brace themselves for a 30-year jail term under the country’s laws. Education for all has been a national priority for our government since we obtained our independence in 1961. Just a few years ago, the government abolished all forms of fees and contributions at primary and secondary school education just to ensure all children receive the basic education. Since 2005, the government has taken important steps to increase access to secondary education, including by committing to build secondary schools in every administrative ward. The budget allocated for education has kept rising year after year. But as the government struggles to keep all children in schools, there is an appalling trend of unmannered men spoiling girls’ lives. It is estimated that 8,000 girls drop out of school every year in the country as they fall into the trap of early sex and pregnancies. The uncalled-for practices cast a bleak future for our girls. Observations show that many of these girls fail to recover from untimely motherhood --often devoid of care and financial support. Once out of school, they lack realistic options to build their future and all their dreams falter miserably. Media reports also hint to prevalent of sexual harassment or, in some schools, efforts by male teachers to persuade or coerce girl students into sexual relationships. Unfortunately, the victims, parent and even officials around them rarely report sexual abuse to law enforcers. It is high time that all leaders, starting from the grassroots level put in concerted efforts to curb the problem. As per the Prime Minister’s directives, government administrators should effectively investigate allegations of sexual abuse and prosecute abusers. In collaboration with school managements, they should establish confidential reporting systems so that students feel comfortable reporting abuse.