TANZANIA National U-17 team coach Bakari Shime has lauded his charges for finishing off Burundi while immediately focusing on their next opponents. Shime said that at Intwari Stadium in Bujumbura, Burundi after their 1-0 victory over hosts that made his team advance on 6-1 aggregate victory. Prior to their second leg tie, Shime had told reporters in Dar es Salaam that they were going to Bujumbura for another victory not a draw which the team need to qualify. Shime said he was impressed with discipline of the players which he said was very crucial in their success. He, however, warned the players to stay focused as their next game will be tougher and highly challenging. Defender Protas Mbunda, who scored the winner hailed her team mates for the victory. She said they were superior technically superior to their opponents and that helped them claim three points at an away venue. Adding, the team’s skipper Irene Kisisa admitted the game was very tough despite emerging victors at the end. She admitted they committed some mistakes which she said hopes the coach can rectify them in the coming games. “We thank God we have won it. Still it was not an easy win as our opponents wanted to use their home ground to turn tables. We will use this game as a lesson so that mistakes we committed here are rectified before facing our next opponents,” explained Kisisa. Tanzania U17 women’s team sealed their place in the next stage of the Fifa World Cup qualifiers after beating their hosts Burundi 1-0 in Bujumbura on Saturday. Protasia Mbunda scored the only goal of the match in the 29th minute to help the Bakari Shime-coached side win the two-legged fixture 6-1 on aggregate. Tanzania had won the first leg played in Dar es Salaam 5-1 and knew a draw of any kind will help them to progress. However, they looked the better side in Bujumbura and took the lead courtesy of Mbunda. And, after conceding, Burundi fought hard in an effort to get back into the game but a resolute Tanzania defence thwarted any danger that came their way. For Mbunda it was her second goal of the campaign. She was also on the score sheet in the first leg, in which, Tanzania displayed an attractive game, winning possession in the midfield. The away win was a clear indication coach Shime is a man of his word as he said a win for him was more important and it does not matter if it is home or away. Tanzania will face either Uganda or Ethiopia in the next round of the qualifiers. In the first leg match, Uganda beat Ethiopia 2-0 in Kampala. The return leg will be played on Sunday at Bahir Dar Stadium (Bahir Dar) Ethiopia.