PRESIDENT John Magufuli and Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohammed Shein, yesterday asked Tanzanians to cooperate and unite in defending peace, issuing strong warning to people bent on disrupting the country’s harmony. President Magufuli, who is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, assured that Zanzibar and the Union governments were determined to defend the 1964 Zanzibar revolution for the benefits of wananchi. “There is nobody or group of people who will fool around with the Zanzibar revolution, which is the source of peace that we are enjoying today,” Dr Magufuli said during his public addresses at Mwanakwerekwe and Mtoni suburbs. Speaking after laying the foundation stone for Mwanakwerekwe educational resource centre, he highlighted Zanzibar’s economic achievements, which he attributed to the prevailing peace. “Under President (Dr Ali Mohamed) Shein, Zanzibar has registered great social and economic feats…roads, ports, airports, education and health sectors are all undergoing huge transformations,” said the union leader. He said with peace and tranquility, everything is possible. “Let us promote and preserve our country’s peace to achieve whatever we aspire for socially, economically and culturally,” said the Head of State, adding: “Whoever attempts to play around with national security, will be playing a highly dangerous game.” Dr Magufuli said Zanzibar’s economy was growing impressively at seven per cent, with 2.74tri/- Gross Domestic Product (GDP). And, with the per capita income of 1,024 US dollars, Zanzibar is almost attaining the 1,040 dollar per capita middle income status. Launching the five-star Verde Azam Luxury Resort and Spa in Mtoni, Dr Magufuli implored all Tanzanians to prepare for peaceful general elections later this year. He underscored the need for close cooperation and unity among Tanzanians to liberate the country, economically. “Our forefathers did a great job to liberate us politically, we are today duty 1071550002bound to work hard for economic liberation,” said Dr Magufuli. He said only peaceful and calm Tanzania will attract the much needed investors to invest and exploit the abundantly available business opportunities for job creation and revenue generation for the government. On his part, Zanzibar President Dr Shein said maintaining security was not just the duty of the defence and security forces, but also the responsibility of communities. Addressing members of the defence and security forces from both Zanzibar and the Mainland at Mnazi Mmoja grounds, after a five kilometre ‘Amsha, Amsha (awaken) walk’, Dr Shein said community and individual persons had a great role in keeping the country safe. “Government forces cannot work alone, they need to collaborate with ordinary citizens to stop crime and keep the country safe. Technology is being used in criminal networks operations, therefore we need to expose them,” he said. Dr Shein commended the defence and security senior officers including from the Special Forces under the Zanzibar government - TPDF, Police, Immigration, KMKM, Mafunzo, JKU, KVZ (volunteer) and Zimamoto (fire fighters)] - for organising the walk to mark the 56th anniversary of the revolution. He said both governments are fully committed to ensure peace and security was maintained at all times, including during the coming general elections. State Minister- President’s Office (Regional Administration, Local Government, and Special Department) - Mr Hajji Omar Kheri, also thanked the forces for the rare style in celebrating Mapinduzi (Revolution) and a similar walk was held in Pemba Island. The chairperson of defence and security forces committee of the national events, Brigadier General Fadhil Omar Nondo, said ‘Amsha Amsha walk’ also aims at motivating soldiers to serve the nation well and show citizens that they are secure.