IN a bid to support and expedites government payment payments for corporates, the Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania has introduced an enhanced online payment system that simplifies the process. Known as Straight2Bank-NextGen, the online platform is an enhancement of the Bank’s awardwinning suite of electronic channels that enable the Bank’s clients to effectively run their cash management services, and will now include the capability to make government payments on the Government electronic Payment Gateway, GePG. Speaking at a symposium organised by the Ministry of Finance in Dodoma last week, the Bank’s Specialist on online banking and government payments, Mwiga Kapya, said that the bank had considered a number of key aspects in coming up with the enhanced platform. “When it comes to any kind of online transactions what matters most is the aspect of instant confirmation of payments and receipt for both the sender and the receiver. With Straight2Bank-NextGen the receiving government institution receives an immediate notification as soon as a payment is made by an individual or company. On the other hand, the sender also receives an instant receipt on the Straight2BankNextGenplatform which they can keep for the records.” Mr Kapya said. The Straight2Bank-NextGen platform also automatically reconciles all transactions made on government accounts thus avoiding the hassle of running manual reconciliations by the respective entity. With the enhancements and end to end automation of payments, there are no errors made when clients make payments using the platform. He also highlighted that the platform caters for individuals who are not the bank’s clients and urged the public to visit any of the bank’s branches in Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Mwanza should they need to make government payments. The director of financial information system management, Mr John Sausi, commended the bank for introducing the uniqueand welldesigned platform given it’s straightthrough processing design as well as its capability to accommodate the processing of GePG payments from individuals who are not the Bank’s clients.