A RESIDENT of Bukoba, Egidion Bilekezi has been sentenced to death over the murder of his wife, Anchida Egidion. This comes after the decision by the Court of Appeal to dismiss the appeal which Bilekezi, the appellant, had lodged in attempt to fault the judgment of the High Court. Justices Batuel Mmilla, Richard Mziray and Mwanaisha Kwariko confirmed both conviction of murder and the death sentence imposed on the appellant for killing his wife. They pointed out that there was no dispute that the deceased faced unnatural death and that the only person who was responsible was the appellant. According to evidence at the trial court, the son of the appellant, who was the sole eye witness to the incident, testified that he saw the appellant cutting the throat of his mother using a panga. “Considering the nature of the injuries inflicted, we are in full agreement with the learned State Attorney that the killing of the deceased was with malice aforethought,” the justices said. The appellant had attempted to put three types of defenses to exonerate himself from liability. They included provocation, intoxication and self defence. In their judgment, however, the justices of the appeal court carefully considered the evidence on record, together with the circumstances surrounding the case, including the events which occurred before the incident and the appellant’s conduct before and after the incident. “We fail to detect any act which would raise a reasonable doubt to establish that the appellant was provoked. We revisited the defence of the appellant, who alleged to have seen the deceased with another man. With respect, we think this is pure concoction and an afterthought,” they said. According to them, had the wife been with another man, the appellant’s son would have seen that and testified on this serious allegation before the trial court. They concluded that there is no doubt whatsoever that there were no provocative acts done by the deceased to justify the murder. On provocation, the appellant had alleged in his defence that prior to the incident, he had consumed a local illicit brew called gongo and thus wanted the court to believe that the killing of his wife was associated with his drunken state. The justices pointed out that if the appellant’s story would have been true, the intoxication must have been self-induced, but he did not state anywhere in his defence that the alleged intoxication had put him in a state of temporary insanity. “Gathering from the sequence of events in the killing of the deceased, we are wholly convinced that the appellant was alert of what was happening, and we are satisfied that he had formed the intention to kill the deceased,” they said. On self defence, the justices noted from the appellant’s own version when testifying, that throughout the said episode, it was the appellant who was pursuing the deceased. They said that there is nowhere in his evidence to show that the deceased was also armed or retaliated in any way. “We therefore agree with the trial court that self defence does not apply in the circumstances of this case. From what we have discussed herein above, we find no merit in this appeal. It is accordingly dismissed in its entirety,” the justices declared. On the fateful day of May 7, 2013, the appellant’s son had planned to go to Izigo area for circumcision. On the way, he saw his father at around 10:00 am running towards the house. Sensing that it was unusual, he began running after him. On arrival, he found both the appellant and the deceased in their bedroom. On seeing him, his mother screamed that his father wanted to kill her because she was talking to another man on the phone. The father reacted by ordering the boy to leave the room immediately otherwise he would kill him also, but he refused to obey the order. Upon that, the appellant seized a machete intending to attack him. Wisely, the son ran away. The appellant unsuccessfully pursued him, but he tricked him and hid behind the fence. He stood at a strategic position where he could see what was going on in his parent’s room by peeping through an open window of the room. That way, he said, he was able to see the appellant cutting the throat of the deceased using a machete he was holding. The son had told the court that his mother tried to run towards the living room, but due to excessive bleeding, she lost her strength and fell on the floor, where the appellant once again struck her on the hand, and another blow on the neck.