YOUNG Africans are eager to continue their perfect run in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) as they host Tanzania Prisons at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. To reach this phase, Yanga smashed Iringa United 4-0 at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, while Tanzania Prisons won with the similar fashion against Mlale FC at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. It is the second time for the two teams to meet in this season; their first faceoff was in the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) at Samora Stadium in Iringa, where Yanga won 1-0 to end then Tanzania Prison’s unbeaten run in the league. Rwandan import Patrick Sibomana scored the only goal on the day to condemn the Mbeya based lads. This means, Tanzania Prisons will be looking for revenge this afternoon to book a ticket of reaching in the next stage of the contest. Unlike Yanga, who go into the match with a winning mentality after a 3-1 victory over Singida United in VPL, Tanzania Prisons are still recovering from the 3-2 slump they suffered against Namungo FC in their previous match. Speaking ahead of the game, Yanga Communication and Mobilisation Officer Antonio Nugaz said all is well with the team, urging fans to descend at the venue to witness the big encounter. “The squad has been training well for the ASFC match and it is our aim to stamp positive results to go into the next level of the competition. We respect Tanzania Prisons a lot as they have a good team but our priority is to win at any cost,” he said. Clarifying on the issue of the team’s defender Ally Ally who is said to have rejected the offer to join JKT Tanzania on loan, Nugaz said the club will give more details about the saga soon. “It is true that the management wanted him (Ally) to join JKT Tanzania on loan as one way to give him enough playing time, bearing in mind that currently, he is having less chances to feature in the starting lineup. He refused the offer and the club will resolve that in few days to come,” he said. “The Secretariat will meet soon to discuss on the way forward about Ally because the mini transfer window is now closed and he is still very young, meaning that he needs to play regularly,” Nugaz disclosed. However, in a telephone interview, Ally admitted about the offer but insisted that it is not his preferred destination to play football. “I told them (management) that the club I am willing to join on loan is KMC and not any other team otherwise, I will remain here and continue fighting for the playing time,” he said. In another development, two Yanga players Ditram Nchimbi and Feisal Salum, who attracted interest by an Egyptian club to go and have trials there, are reportedly said to have been requested to remain at the club since the Head Coach Luc Eymael still has plans with them. It was the club’s Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela, who confirmed that they received an offer from an Egypt club (name not mentioned) which showed interest in the two players. “At the moment, we will leave everything in the hands of the coach because he is the one mandated to say who to keep and who to let go,” said Mwakalebela in Dar es Salaam recently