AS this is the first column of this coming year, I will start by wishing all our esteemed readers, a happy and prosperous new year. The year 2020 happens to have certain uniq ue features of being a leap year, which has a total of 366 days, with that extra day of 29 th February. But also, in the case of Tanzania, this will be the year of our general elections for the President of the United Republic, and the President of Zanzibar; the Members of the Union Parliament and of the Zanzibar House of Representatives; plus the Local Authority Councillors. There is, of course, nothing special, or uniq ue, about its being a leap year, except that a leap year comes only after every four years. Nor is there anything particularly special, or uniq ue, about its being an election year, except that election time is always unusually hectic. And Indeed, it is precisely for that reason that we have selected this particular topic for discussion in today’s article. Because we need to remind our esteemed readers, lest they forget, (a) that this is Tanzania’s general elections year, which will be the 12th general election since Tanzania Mainland’s independence in 1961, and the 6th since the reintroduction of multi-party politics in 19 9 2; and ( b) to alert them to be prepared for the inevitable hectic activities that are normally associated with election time. All these matters are briefly outlined in the paragraphs which follow below. R ecent election lessons from other jurisdictions In almost all cases, and in practically all countries, election time is always hectic, that is to say, full of activity and excitement involving election campaigns and other election-related activities. But a k ey factor in all election processes, is the unavoidable tension which it inevitably imposes on the aspiring candidates, and their avid supporters. In this connection, we can learn some useful lessons from the elections which were recently held in Namibia and Great Britain; which have clearly demonstrated that the level of uncertainty and tension in general elections, largely depends on the circumstances prevailing in the relevant country at the material time; and further that such circumstances are created by the presence of certain specified major issues that have raised widespread public concern. In the case of Namibia, the level of uncertainty that surrounded their recent general election (the sixth since that country’s independence in 19 9 0), was absolutely unprecedented. In their case, two issues have been reported to have been involved. One was a major corruption scandal concerning the allocation of fishing q uotas, which erupted only two week s before the poll, and involved the arrest of two cabinet ministers; The other was the controversy surrounding the electronic voting machines, whose efficacy was being widely q uestioned, thus causing a damaging erosion of trust in the state apparatus. In addition, it is also reported that there were some other issues which also fuelled considerable public discontent. These included “the staggering unemployment rates, particularly among young people; a persistent economic crisis and gross social ineq uality; plus the conflict-ridden, unresolved, land q uestion” . These negative factors gave the ruling party, SWAPO, a massive loss in terms of percentage points, particularly for their Presidential candidate who was seek ing re-election for a second and final term, Hage Geingob, from 87 per cent which he garnered in the previous election, this time scrapping through with only 56.3 per cent. It is further reported “ voters participation also fell, from over 7 0 per cent in 2014, to 60 per cent of the registered voters”. It would thus appear that SWAPO’s seemingly unassailable position has been shattered. There is, obviously, an important lesson to be learnt here, to which we will return a little later. In the case of Great Britain, there was the paradox of just why there were so many traditional Labour party voters who willingly crossed the political divide and voted for the Conservatives. As we shall see later, here is yet another important lesson also to learnt. In that case, two major issues are also reported to have influenced this unexpected turn of events. One was the Conservatives’ slogan of “ get Brexit done” by tak ing Britain out of the European Union by the end of January, 2020; and the other was “a big disconnect between the Labour party and a big chunk of its base” . The bright side of the recent British poll results is that, in view of his massive electoral victory, the Conservative British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson , has been empowered to break the dreadful legislative deadlock that had arisen with regard to that issue, in the sense that he has been enabled to wield power in a manner that his recent predecessors could only have dreamed of! Conseq uently, in welcoming his ministers to no 10 Downing street’ the jubilant Prime Minister Boris Johnson declared: “ We shall have absolutely no embarrassment in saying that we are a peoples’ Government, and this is a peoples’ cabinet” . The Labour party’s apparent troubles Immediately after the results of the poll were announced, a don at the British University of Sheffield’s ‘ Sir Bernard Crick Centre for Public Understanding of Politics’ commented as follows: “ The people have spok en clearly, that they want to ‘get Brexit done’. But the results also suggest the existence of a major disconnect between the UK’s major opposition Labour party, and a big chunk of its base” . He continued as follows: “ The ‘ Boris bounce’ that has just occurred, was not fuelled by positive hope and optimism, but rather, by fatigue and frustration, with a political system that appeared unable, or unwilling, to cope with the burdens of Brexit . . . A deeper explanation for the Labour party’s poor performance, could be that it results from a failure to understand exactly how traditional work ing classes feel” , and thereafter proceeds to q uote the words of the MP for Barnsley East in northern England, who said that “ many work ing class communities feel ignored, forgotten and abandoned”. The political lessons to be learnt there from We have stated above, that there are certain important lessons to be learnt from the election results in the examples discussed . In my humble opinion, the most crucial, vital lesson, is that they help to provide a reliable answer to the q uestion of “ what are the factors that influence people to vote the way they do? These examples show that the ISSUES that generate public misgivings, or concern, have a major contribution in influencing voters regarding which of the competing political parties they will vote for; and further that prevailing assumptions of LOYALTY to the party are, in fact, actually untenable. And, specifically, that the issues listed in the said examples, are what influenced voters to vote negatively against the ruling party (in the case of Namibia) and to vote negatively against the main opposition Labour party (in the British case), where, in both cases, large numbers of party members just abandoned their presumed loyalty to their parties, obviously in protest. In our own case, this k ind of protest has also happened, at least twice, in the 2010 and 2015 general elections; when large numbers of CCM voters unexpectedly abandoned loyalty to their party, by either voting for opposition candidates, or just abstaining from participating in the voting exercise. Also, lik e in Namibia, voter participation in the 2010 general election went down drastically, to a disappointing 42 per cent of the registered voters. All these were voters’ reactions to allegations of serious corruption scandals, that were attributed to certain Government leaders, as well as to the ruling party itself. But, indeed fortunately, and thanks to President Magufuli, the present situation is totally different from that of those yester years. The victory assurance provided by President Magufuli’s performance. All indications appear to support the view, that President John Magufuli’s sterling performance over the past four years of his stewardship of the affairs of our great country, particularly in the delivery of social, as well economic infrastructures, and a host of other community goods and services; has practically eliminated any public misgivings or concerns. Furthermore, neither he, nor any member of his cabinet, has been accused of any involvement in any scandals, or of any breach of leadership ethics. It would thus appear, barring the occurrence of any unexpected last minute disaster, that victory for President Magufuli and for a large majority of CCM electoral candidates, stands completely assured in this year’s general elections. May the Lord God grant us peace, Amen. The need to appreciate the crucial role of the opposition camp Multi-party democracy is actually premised on the presumption that regularly, at certain agreed intervals ( in our case, after every five years), the people (the registered voters), will be given the opportunity, through properly organized and fair electoral competition, to decide which of the country’s political parties will be given the mandate to form the government of the day. At the same time, there will be the Official Opposition camp inside Parliament, to be formed by the political party that lost the election, but obtained the req uisite number of MPs to enable them to form the Official opposition. Thus, failure to win the forthcoming election should not, in any way, obliterate, or obscure, the basic fact that the gallant losers will still have a crucial, respectable task to perform inside Parliament. In the ‘parliamentary system of government’ which we are operating in Tanzania (lik e in many other countries), those members of Parliament who sit on the opposition benches, have a very significant and vital role to play in the political management of the country’s affairs; which is to monitor, and exercise constitutional control, over the actions and performance of the government of the day. Fortunately, our main opposition party, CHADEMA, and its coalition allies, are fully aware of this aspect of the parliamentary system of government, and therefore , like their British counterparts the main opposition Labour party, they should just continue to prepare themselves for carrying out this noble opposition task , which they have already been doing for quite a long time now, and must have acq uired adeq uate experience, plus the relevant management skills, that will enable them to perform even better this time; while they patiently wait for the proverbial “next time”, which may be remotely possible only after the invincible President Magufuli has completed his second term; or in the most unlik ely event of the seemingly unassailable Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) being shattered, at an unforeseeable, distant future general election. In other words, they should just forget their obviously unachievable ambition of “ removing CCM from power” which, strangely enough, appears to occupy their minds, thus deliberately ignoring the proverbial “ truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth”, that this cannot possibly happen this year. Finally, Happy new year one more time to all our esteemed readers of this column. God willing, we will k eep ‘soldiering on’ by providing new week ly material for the next fifty – two week s, of this uniq ue combination of a leap year and a general elections year, namely the year of our Lord, 2020. piomsek wa@ gmail.com /07 547 67 57 6.