NATIONAL Under- 17 Women football team skipper Irene Elias believes that they are ready to defeat Burundi in the 2020 Women’s World Cup qualifying game at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The two teams faceoff in the first leg qualifying battle of the biggest football contest in the world, which will be held for the first time in India from November 2nd to 21st late this year. After today’s match, the home team will travel to Burundi for the return leg encounter and the aggregate winner will progress to the second round of the qualifiers, to play against the winner between Ethiopia and Uganda. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), entry charges leading to the game have been simplified to attract more fans at the 60,000 capacity stadium of which VIP A will be accessed at 5000/-, VIP B 1000/- while those who will occupy ordinary seats will pay nothing at all. Speaking in the city recently, Irene said basing on the level of preparations they have had prior to the game, winning the home match is their top priority. “To say the truth, there is no way for Burundi to leave the pitch unscathed and this can only be achieved if fellow Tanzanians will come in big number to cheer us up,” she said. She added that people should not fear about posting bad results from them since morale among team members is up with each eager to stamp a convincing victory from home territory. Also, the team’s goalkeeper Masha Omary said personally, she will work hard at the guarding territory to avoid conceding goals. “As a shot stopper, let me assure all Tanzanians that we are well prepared to face them (Burundi) so that in the return leg, we should not have pressure at all,” she said. She also appealed to many people to descend at the venue to support them from the start to the end. Head Coach Bakari Shime said they will approach the game seriously without underrating Burundi describing them as a tough opponent to play against. “We have had a long term preparation leading to this match and just recently, the team returned from Egypt where we took part in a special competition and this is a good platform to put in practice what we learnt there,” Shime said. He added that to prove how Burundi are tactically perfect, they are the ones who prevented them from clinching the CECAFA Women title in Uganda last year, after coming from behind to force a 3-3 draw. “Our focus now should be on how to defeat them (Burundi) to stand a chance of playing in the World Cup finals, hence it will be a battle between two teams which know each other well as we have met before in various competitions,” he said. He, however, said football sometimes has painful results as you do not really get what you want but was sure that basing on the level of preparations done so far, they will fight to win the encounter.