THE draw with their traditional rivals Young Africans was painful to Simba after squandering a 2-0 lead, and the team’s coach said he was not satisfied with the results. Simba Head Coach Sven Vanderbroeck said he was satisfied with the play and not the score when Young Africans came from a 2 goal down to stamp a 2-2 draw at the National Stadium in Dare s Salaam over the weekend. The two heavyweights played out to a 2-2 draw at a packed 60,000 capacity venue with the hosts, Simba, blowing away a 2-goal lead in the second half as they conceded twice within three minutes. Despite the stalemate, Simba still lead the 20-team league table with 35 points from 14 matches while Yanga sit fourth on the ladder with 25 points from 12 encounters, making them stand a ten-point gap with the leaders. Azam and Coastal Union both have 26 points to occupy second and third slots respectively, with the two clubs being separated by goal differences. But, speaking after the high profile match, Vanderbroeck insisted that laws of the game decided the match saying the two goals they conceded came as one of his players was outside the pitch receiving treatment. “We conceded both goals with one man down and I am sure that if it had not happened, they could not have come back into the game,” he said. Adding, the Belgian tactician said his side was on the verge to seal a victory courtesy of John Bocco’s teasing header which was denied by the post deep into the second half of the game. Commenting further, the coach said the match was between a technical team and the other with determination, insisting that was a good game altogether as they were able to control the game and possession as well as scoring chances throughout the first half. However, Vanderbroeck commended the referee Jonesia Rukyaa, saying she did well in such a difficult game. “The referee was good. I have to give her compliments for handling well such a difficult game,” he said. He also said Yanga had an advantage to dominate the midfield battle as they used more players there hence were able to launch dangerous raids. On his part, Yanga caretaker coach Boniface Mkwasa lauded a strong determination from his charges saying it played a very big role in earning a point from their traditional rivals. “When we conceded two goals, I thought it was extremely hard to come back into the contest but, they fought hard and managed to share spoils by equalising both goals, which was very important thing for us,” said Mkwasa. He continued: “The results to us was good because some of the players who featured are still new in the squad as they have not stayed together for a long time comparing with our opponents Simba.” Commenting on the performance of the two newly- signed strikers; Ditram Nchimbi and Yikpe Gnamien who was introduced in the second half, Mkwasa said he was completely satisfied with their performance urging Yanga supporters to expect more from them. “It was good for them to make their debuts in a big match of this nature. They will continue to be given playing time for other upcoming matches of the league,” said him.