POLICE in Nkasi District in Rukwa Region have arrested two game wardens for allegedly soliciting and receiving a 4.5m/- bribe from pastoralists after seizing 200 cattle that strayed into Mfili Forest Reserve. The duo, who are attached tzto the Wildlife and Natural Resources Department within Nkasi District Council, are being grilled by Preventing and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) officials at Namanyere township. The Nkasi District Commissioner, Mr Said Mtanda, disclosed the incident over the weekend, while addressing a full council at Namanyere, which comprehensively discussed and endorsed proposals for the 2020/21 Financial Year budget draft. The DC told the assembly that the arrest of the suspects was facilitated by tip-offs from some law abiding citizens to relevant authorities on January 8. “On the material day, I was informed that the suspects had seized 200 cattle over illegal entry into Mfili Forest Reserve which is the key source of water supply for residents of small town of Namanyere.” After the seizure, the suspects and pastoralists, the focus being that pastoralists should pay them 10m/- for the animals to be released. “After a lengthy argument, the pastoralists agreed to give the suspects 6m/- in all, by advancing then 4.5m/- and promising to clear the 1.5m/- balance the following day,” the DC disclosed. Mr Mtanda further explained that after thorough grilling, pastoralists who paid the suspects the 4.5m/- disclosed the names of the suspects . He said they handed over 1.5m/- in cash to PCCB officers, being the promised balance for the suspects . On his part, the Nkasi District Executive Director, Mr Missana Kwangula, told the ‘Daily News’ on the sidelines of the councillors meeting that the council would take disciplinary action against the suspects. “According to the council’s by-laws, a 50,000/- fine is imposed on the owner of every cattle that strays into reserved areas; this means that 10m/- would be raised over the 200 cattle’s entry,” the DED further explained.