WISE men - oh, yes; plus wise women, and, hey, wise boys and girls as well – are credited with inventing sayings that less wise ones like me (though I strongly suspect that I am incurably unwise) have embraced as enthusiastically as mothers embrace their babies. One of the sayings whose creator I have never bothered to establish, and for which I have no time to establish, because I am too busy trying to chase something known as ‘shilingi’ (shilling), is that “No research; no right to speak”. ‘Shilingi’ is something about which the musical outfit Simba Wanyika sang a long time ago, but not as long ago as around when baby Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem. Simba Wanyika injected much excitement into the lives of me and compatriots who were something between old boys and young men in the blessed 1970s and 1980s. How I (we) wish those days could resurface! We had exciting dressing styles that, looking back, sets me wondering whether we weren’t third-grade comedians. The starting points of our pairs of trousers were in extreme cases one inch or so above the abdomen, and then descended downwards, right up to the feet. The trousers were so wide at the bottom that they covered the shoes, thereby rendering idiotic, the goal of exposing the very expensive shoes to which we sought to draw girls’ attention, who we speculated would promote us to princes, beyond being mere boys or young men. The trousers ended up sweeping the roads along which the wearers walked. Wise adults and level-headed females smiled at us, misleading us into believing that they were admiring us. In reality, they were indirectly mocking us as a bunch of first class (first class?) idiots. The shirts were so tight that they appeared as though they were imprisoning parts of the bodies that they covered. I’m lost; where was I? Oh, yes: the ‘shilingi’ that Simba Wanyika sang about back then, and which I have been too busy chasing, to establish who coined the “No research; no right to speak” saying. I haven’t conducted a research to establish why Wednesday, which pretends to be located three and a half days between every week behaved the way it did recently, and as such, I am supposed to have no right to speak about the issue. Considering that I am not a particularly well-behaved person, though, I am daring to comment on it, come what may, including (God forbid) imprisonment (but not a death sentence, for heaven’s sake!). The latest Christmas Day was marked on a Wednesday. If you had a few precious minutes to waste (sorry; to spare) last Sunday to read my blah—blah---, you may recall that I promised a certain gentleman (though his having punched my nose had nothing to do with gentleness) that I would reflect on his proposal that I become a born-again Christian, and I promised I would ponder the proposition. Don’t be surprised if, one of these days, you come across me, not as Mr Wilson Kakende (small monkey) Kaigarula, but preaching the word of God on some open space in Dar, as Prophet Wilson Bright Sunshine Kaigarulason, Chief Co-ordinator of “Going to Heaven Is A Must Church”. After Christmas went on a one-year-long leave, something else started strategising on knocking “hodi” to us, the children of God, so that, as many of them would do the needful when it dawned, as they did during what our compatriots in one blessed section of Kilimanjaro Region call ‘kilithimathi’. As you have correctly guessed, “needful” has a lot to do with reconnecting with rarely seen family members and friends, to exchange pleasantries, pump a lot of food into stomachs and draining a lot of liquids into the veins of their blood. Some people, me included, love our brains so much that we don’t want to subject them to complicated missions like how to transform rusty metals into materials for manufacturing machines as part of the industrial economy drive. Instead, we capitalise on cheap things that don’t entail much brain power but focus on cheap ones instead. It is in that spirit that I am making a big fuss about New Year’s Day plotting itself on a Wednesday, the intention most probably having been to be equal to, or outshine Christmas Day. That’s ridiculous, since one is pegged on religion and the other is secular, but to which all children of God (you included, of course) relate. On New Year’s Eve, I went to a recreation centre for a ‘Welcome 2020’ drink. The excitement was spoiled by what turned out to be fake pistol shots by fake bandits seeking to spice up the event. What wasn’t fake but real is a Plaster of Paris (PoP) which my blessed left leg is now hosting, thanks to having fallen into a ditch while fleeing. wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633