IT is the oldest derby day in Dar today with equally the oldest clubs in the country, Simba and Young Africans locking horns at the sprawling National Stadium. Many soccer fans are expected to throng the stadium to watch teams which have, for years, arguably brought a lot of excitement and disappointment to winners and losers respectively. Yet if there are any teams in this country which have caused irreparable damage to soccer as a game those teams are Simba and Young Africans. Both teams are not involved in any soccer development, apart from buying players which have already ‘been developed’ by other clubs. You exclude Simba and Young Africans players from the senior national soccer team, Taifa Stars, and you should not be surprised if the team is booed by fans most of whom are Simba and Young Africans fans. Therefore, if there is any soccer development that one can talk of, it can only happen if the initiative starts from within the two soccer ‘giants’ who have won nothing in continental soccer tournament since their creation in 1935 and 1936 for Yanga and Simba respectively. Fairly young clubs across the continent have won continental soccer clubs tournaments repeatedly, but not Simba and Young Africans. After the end of the match today, there will be a lot of celebrations into the night. But fans from both teams need to start thinking hard if it is proper to continue to spend a lot of efforts in derby matches and celebrations. They need to start working towards the improvement of their clubs so that they can be more competitive in continental soccer tournaments. It does not make sense for young clubs like South Africa’s SuperSports United, Mamelodi Sundowns, Nigeria’s Enyimba and others to be doing wonders in continental soccer, while they continue to present nominal threats. Commentators early this week gave Simba an edge over their arch rivals, Young Africans on the ground that their players have been together for a long time. They said Young Africans were likely to face more problems because their players were recruited recently and were yet to get used to one another. However, others cautioned that much as Young Africans players were new in the club and were yet to get used to one another, but this was derby and that anything could happen. But to me, there is very little difference from the two teams. If either team win today, it would be more to do with tactics and psychological edge rather than anything. And that is precisely what both teams now need to look at, critically, after the end of the match today. Both teams need to know that they cannot build good teams through the use of players they have collected from different clubs at home and abroad, players most of whom learnt the game on their own, and in the streets. If we have been watching the English Premier League lately, we will have noted that clubs which have been performing poorly have changed their fortunes within two to three matches after getting new team managers. The reason for that is very simple. Although they also have players from different clubs and countries, but their training background from the players’ tender age is similar. Whether the players came from Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe or England; they all went through the same soccer system and in soccer academies which provided them with theoretical and practical knowledge in basic football. And, because they went through the same basic soccer training and from their tender age, it is always been easy to forge them into a winning outfit. Now that is one thing that both Young Africans and Simba managements need to start thinking hard about. They need to establish soccer academies within the precinct of their clubs. As I had occasion to note in my column on Wednesday, this week, they don’t need to keep the players in a boarding. They simply need to get hold of primary school children, but who are also very keen in their education. And, the main reason for that is children who are not keen in education will never make good, professional footballers. The criteria should therefore be children who are very keen both in education and football. Having got the right framed children, the club can now use even the chief coach in training the children before the start of training for senior players. This is what the Romanian coach, Professor Victor did not get Yanga Kids in 1970s. Soccer derbies between Young Africans and Simba would be more entertaining and more meaningful if the bulk of their players are made up of players who have gone, successfully, through soccer academies. The Simba, Young Africans derby would only make sense if the two teams start treating their fans to carpet, free-flowing football that is full of tactical moves reminiscent of Chess game. Until the two teams get to the level I have just described above, today’s derby match is not different from any premier league match as rightly pointed out by one of the TFF officials during a sports bulletin on Friday night. The same thing was done earlier by former Kenyan international, Peter Oronge in Kisumu, Kenya in 1968 when he produced the most feared team in East Africa during the time, Kisumu Hotstars that would within four years produce seven Kenyan international including a shot stopper, Joseph Otieno ‘Burri.’ • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/ author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk