TANZANIA People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam has appointed national ladies golf team Captain Hawa Wanyeche to take over the club’s ladies section captain position effectively from January 2020. Lugalo Chairman Michael Luwongo has confirmed to the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam that they appointed Wanyeche for the position so as to lead ladies section and represent them accordingly. Wanyeche take the position from former captain Ayne Magombe, who has resigned recently. “We thank Magombe for her time she spent meticulous service in office, but we had to appoint new captain because she tabled the resignation latter recently. We are optimist that with the experience Wanyeche has in the game and as national team captain, she will run the section smoothly,” he said. Luwongo added: “Normally that position does not have specific time or period in office. This means, Wanyeche will be in the office until announced otherwise… we will help her to fulfill all her duties as we continue to develop ladies golf to reach high level.” Wanyeche is one of the Tanzania ladies top golfers. In October last year, she led national team to clinch third East and Central Africa Challenge Trophy title in Kampala, Uganda. Commenting about her appointment, Wanyeche expressed her happiness, saying she was honoured to lead ladies section at a wonderful club like Lugalo that has good number of lady golfers than other local clubs in the country. “I want to thank Lugalo Chairman Luwongo and entire committee for having faith and giving me this opportunity. It is my first time and I know it is not an easy task but with commitment and support from others we will certainly achieve our target,” she noted. Wanyeche added that she will form different committees soon, so as to smoothen operations that include searching for sponsors to support various progammes. She said that will consider staging the first Lugalo Ladies Open tournament. Lugalo professional golfer Daudi Helela has also appealed for ladies to give new captain maximum support. Wanyeche’s appointment has been received well by lady golfers including national team members Angel Eaton of Lugalo and Madina Iddi of Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC).