PERMANENT Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, has showered praises on the Dar es Salaam Water and Sanitation Authority (DAWASA) for spearheading implementation of water projects in the country’s commercial capital and some neighboring areas in Coast Region. Prof Mkumbo, who was accompanied by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of DAWASA, Engineer Cyprian Luhemeja, hailed the utility when touring water booster stations at Bunju, Kunduchi, Salasala and Changanyikeni in the city. Just like adequate and affordable electricity coupled with favourable infrastructure, water supply is among foremost ingredients needed to foster the country’s industrialization agenda aimed at realizing middle-income economy by the year 2025. “It is without doubt that the DAWASA, including the board of directors, management as well as employees have done a tremendous job in undertaking water projects which have eased shortage of the precious liquid in its area of operations,” he commended. Prof Mkumbo however urged the authority to maintain the tempo in executing projects in other areas in Coast Region which have been added on its scope of service. Previously, DAWASA only served Dar es Salaam as well as Bagamoyo and Kibaha townships in Coast Region but the scope has now increased to include Kisarawe, Chalinze and Mkuranga, all in Coast Region. Eng. Luhemeja informed the PS that the utility has already constructed a water pumping station in Kisarawe which is currently supplying water to residents in the area. “DAWASA is also constructing a tank at Pugu area to supply water to residents in Pugu, Ukonga, Gongo la Mboto, Chanika and surrounding areas,” the CEO informed the PS. Supply of water in Dar es Salaam and its environs has significantly improved over the recent years through implementation of various initiatives including the multi-billion project for expansion of the Upper Ruvu Water treatment plant. Execution of the water treatment plant increased its capacity to 196 million litres up from just 82 million litres per day and thus easing shortage of water in many parts of Dar es Salaam and Kibaha. Likewise, expansion of Lower Ruvu water treatment plant increased its capacity to 586 million litres from a 390 million litres per day. The amount of water supplied from the two sources is by far beyond the demand of about 500 million litres per day for residents in the country’s commercial hub and its environs. The two projects whose implementation started in the year 2014 and completed in 2017, were part of the Dar es Salaam Water Supply Scheme which were funded through a soft loan by Exim Bank of India which provided US 178 million dollars (about Sh372.7bn/-).