IT has been year mixed with success, failures and challenges and many hopes that the New Year, 2020 would be better and more successful in sports. The year that was, 2019, like the year before, 2018, the country did not excel in sports. Perhaps the only achievement Tanzanians can talk of was national team, Taifa Stars’ qualification in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), which was hosted by Egypt in June last year. Yes, the country qualified for the AFCON finals, but failed to do well in the tournament. In fact, if anything, Stars performed worse than what the team did when they first qualified for the AFCON tournament in Lagos, Nigeria in 1980. In 1980 AFCON finals, Taifa Stars returned home with one point after drawing with Ivory Coast and going down against the hosts, Nigeria by 0-3 and lost to Egypt by 1-2. During their second AFCON qualification in Cairo last year, Taifa Stars, then under Nigerian legend, Emmanuel Amunike lost all their three group matches against Algeria (3-0), Senegal (2-0) and neighbours, Kenya (3-2). Mainland champions Simba also had a successful campaign in 2018/2019 CAF Champions League, in which they reached the quarterfinals, for the first time since 2003, before being bundled out by Congolese side TP Mazembe. It was end of the road for Simba after they hit a hurdle in CAF Champions League, following a 4-1 aggregate defeat to Mazembe. After a barren draw in the first leg match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Simba were beaten squarely by the five times winners of the tournament, as they succumbed to a 4-1 defeat in Lubumbashi. It was not a good year for the national Under-17 youth team, Serengeti Boys. The hosts Serengeti Boys embarrassingly bowed out of the 2019 Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals, following a run of three defeats in group stages of the tournament. Pooled in group A, of the finals staged for the first time in Tanzania, Serengeti Boys then coached by Oscar Mirambo lost the group opener to Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets, following 5-4 defeat, before a 3-0 loss at the hands of Uganda Cubs. In their final group encounter, Mirambo charges suffered a 4-2 loss to Angola. One of the positives is that Tanzania’s Hassan Mwakinyo on December 1st, 2019, beat Arnel Tinampay of the Philippines on points in an entertaining international non-title bout in Dar es Salaam amid allegation that the visitor was robbed of victory. In a closely contested ten round fight at the well decorated Uhuru Stadium, Mwakinyo was declared winner with two judges 97-93, 98- 92, while the third judge tied the boxers on 96-96 points. However, several boxing pundits have defended Mwakinyo's victory, saying the youthful promising fighter had nicked in some important points compared to his opponent. With the exception of Hassan Mwakinyo in professional boxing, 2019 had nothing to show off but continuous, endless defeats. Whether it was in athletics, netball, basketball or football, the song was the same, defeats after defeats and our athletes continued, as usual, to come up with a series of excuses. Now that was 2019, the year that was. The country needs to work, for the 2020 year. Which is the year of Tokyo Olympic Games. However, pundits says the country needs to start planning for 2021 from onwards. They argue that it’s important to use the New Year, 2020, for planning the way forward for different sports disciplines because you cannot win in the present, modern sports without planning. All our sports associations from football to athletics and from netball to basketball, from hockey to cricket, you name it, need to sit down and plan for next decade. 