WE live in an era full of countless risks in every sphere of life. Wherever we are, be it in villages of Musumba and Ngundusi in Ngara north-western Tanzania to Mabwepande and Kigogo in Dar es Salaam, our property are usually predisposed to fire risks, to mention one, and as for human life, there are risks of death or disability, and so on. Put simply, our life and property are not safe, and there is always a risk of losing them. A simple way to cover this risk of loss moneywise is to get our life and property insured. However, this submission is easy to mention, but difficult to implement. Notwithstanding the biggest challenge most African countries face, especially that of limited insurance consumer knowledge, understanding and capability on insurance policies and terms, it is important that we understand where we are. To use the words of Francis Bacon 1561-1626, an English philosopher and statesman, who served as Attorney General and as Lord Chancellor of England, indeed, knowledge is power. Yes, awareness is important. And I have always conquered with the wisdom of Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht 1898 - 1956, a German theatre practitioner, playwright, and poet, who once reminded people of faith by saying; you don’t need to pray to God any more when there are storms in the sky, but you do have to be insured. With this insight, the general public, and not only TIRA, have a huge task in terms of educating wananchi on the importance of insurance. The good news though is this; for over a decade now, Tanzania’s insurance sector, an important and a key player in our national economy, has been promisingly growing and bearing economic fruits. In my view, this record growth should be credited to the good work of TIRA, the body responsible for coordinating policies as well as other matters relating to insurance in the country. Great news indeed. They deserve compliment as they continue to oversee those providing protection against possible eventualities at all levels. They have sustained our economy by, among other things, coordinating the industry to ensure that insurers provide protection to trade and industry, which ultimately have contributed towards human progress across the country. It would be difficult to deny the fact that the industry has continued to promote savings to individuals and investment, it is, in many places, investing its funds in industry, agriculture and commerce, and to an individual level, especially the insured person, many have enjoyed loans against the security of insurance policy from insurance companies and banks, but to a much more known role, many have been protected against dangers to life and property. All that said, however, it is unfortunate that the roles insurance performs in macro-economic development which cannot be easily overlooked, and like any other industry, insurance industry remains vulnerable to fraud, not very much spoken about but, tends to be considered a sensitive issue in the sector. Not much is known about the magnitude of the problem though. But common and familiar questions one hears from the industry itself is this; are insurance companies quick to respond where they suspect fraudulent activities to exist? This and other related questions speak of the existence of the problem. Let me reiterate. No single institution is immune to corruption and fraud. Even though statistics regarding the problem are not commonly availed for the general public to reflect on, and even when available, cannot easily be interpreted, but we cannot ignore the fact that the problem is probably deeply prevalent in the industry. So countering fraud in the insurance sector, the problem which comes in all shapes and sizes, is critical and should be a priority for 2020. We say critical because it is not only the problem of Tanzania, but this important industry costs companies billions of dollars per year across the globe. In my view, it is the magnitude of the problem which should make it imperative that TIRA and insurers take a proactive stance against the vice. In our country, any effort to tackle this problem will imply that insurance industry is fruitfully participating in making Tanzania an industrialized middle income country. Insurance fraud costs companies billions of dollars per year across the globe, making it imperative that insurers take a proactive stance against fraud. Insurance companies should establish a technology framework, tap into advanced automation and analytics, and take steps to prevent it. And there is reason to their submission. We hear challenges associated with insurance agents and company employees committing fraud, one of which I learnt in my research and consultancy, on corruption and fraud, is where perpetrators inflate claims and misrepresent facts, say on certain insurance application. Others submit claims for injuries or damage that never occurred, we also hear of criminals involved in staging accidents. It means you simply have professionals who are habitually trying to milk the system, for example, when a genuine claimant becomes opportunistic or exaggerating a claim. It is sad. If we want the industry to move fast and become more fruitful for the well-being of our nation, fighting fraud should be added to the ongoing good work of TIRA, often seen through their relentless efforts to improve audits and simplifying filing processes and so on. So our position is this; fraud in insurance sector is a global problem, and remains a bottleneck to the bright prospects of our nation. We commend the good work of Tanzanian insurers. But with all the good work they are doing, they should ensure that staff capacity is built to enable them oversee the industry well. Among the areas we could easily identify includes but are not limited to putting emphasis on the use of a combination of technology, tools and approaches to combat fraud. They should also know that it is dire for them not to wait for fraud to occur and deal with it after the fact; instead, they should take action and implement processes that identify potential fraud early and provide the ability to move quickly when fraud is detected. So congratulations to TIRA. You should know though that insurance industry and nation building strategies are inseparable. A small thing an insurer does, be it good or bad, has implication to our nation. In conclusion, note that, as Ernest Dimnet, 1866-1954, French priest, writer and lecturer, once said; the happiness of most people is not ruined by great catastrophes or fatal errors, but by the repetition of slowly destructive little things. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania, Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997