“TANZANIANS in the Diaspora” across the world are sending home about 1.03 trillion Tzs. per year,” declared the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation during one of the 2018 Parliament’s sessions in Dodoma. There are Tanzanians in almost every known field and corner of this world. Apart from having our students across many reputed universities in the world, international institutions, organizations and agencies are enjoying fruits and services offered by highly qualified Tanzanians. The unique performances by the likes of our famous diplomats; the former Prime Minister Salim Ahmed Salim and Ambassador Asha-Rose Migiro at the helm of United Nations and other experts have smoothened the path and inspired many Tanzanians. Mannered and patriotic, while tuned by the motto “Hapa Kazi tu,” wherever they are! Our brave and genuine fellow citizens, do perform exemplarily to their level best in what-ever they are doing and in most cases, they do get rewarded accordingly. Dr EPHRAIM MADUHU NKONYA, a Senior Fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) is one of the professional Tanzanians in the Diaspora. Here is his reason for choosing his profession of agricultural development. “I grew up on a small farm in Itilima district and watched my family work very hard, yet they did not make much money! I wanted to know why farmers work so hard, yet remain the poorest. I wanted to help policy-makers understand this problem and address it. It has been a rewarding profession and I have done a lot of writing on this question.” Dr Nkonya (who leads IFPRI’s program on land resources for poverty reduction), was born in December the 30th, 1959 at home in the village of Ikunguilipu in Simiyu region. His parents are the late Mzee Maduhu Nkonya (a farmer) and Mama Kija Maduhu (Jack of all trade and master of all: Midwife, farmer, tailor, small trader etc.) “having given birth to 16 children (Ephraim is the 8th born), my mother is truly among unique in the world-hard working, intelligent and entrepreneur!” For his school education, the young Ephraim has humble beginning started at Ikinguilipu Primary School in Itilima district, “The teacher would write a, e, i, o, u etc on the blackboard, have pupils memorize on how to pronounce each letter. The teacher will then ask them to write the letters on sand! Pupils will only receive a notebook after knowing how to read and write!” Ephraim remembers vividly the issue of ‘koroboi’ – which gives candle-like light from wick dipped into kerosene. He used ‘koroboi’ to do his homework and study. Through such challenges, he worked hard and passed the final Examination to join public secondary school - namely Kahororo Secondary School. “Passing standard seven exams to join form one is my most celebrated success since only one per cent of standard seven students passed this exam in 1975.” Furthermore, he joined Ndanda High School in Masasi. It was during Mwalimu Nyerere’s leadership, whereby intentional measures were taken to infuse a true sense of unity and nationalism. “This made me move from Simiyu to Bukoba and then diagonally moved from northwest to southeast Tanzania, an experience which completely made me a Tanzanian and left no trace of my Sukuma heritage!” After High School, Ephraim attended the compulsory National Service (JKT) at Makutopora in Dodoma. Later, he earned his BSc from the Sokoine University of Agriculture in Morogoro (SUA) “I was President of the Student union (Muungano wa Wanafunzi Tanzania – MUWATA) in 1986.” Then, he pursued his graduate studies (Masters and PhD) in Agricultural Economics at Kansas State University in the USA. Dr NKONYA is among who practically plays their part by using the knowledge to walk the talk. So far, he has published widely in referred journals on issues related “to natural resource management, poverty reduction, climate change and role of rural services on poverty reduction.” Dr Nkonya, a well-respected in the international development research, is thought leader in natural resource economics. His most recent book on global assessment of land degradation and improvement is among the most downloaded books at Springer Publisher. It has been downloaded more than 500,000 times and still counting. “I have been among the top 10% of Authors on ‘SSRN (Social Science Research Network Ranking)’ by total number of citations of my works and by new downloads since May 2017 – January 2020.” Also, Dr Nkonya has been doing policy influence activities, which include holding policy dialogue with policy makers and donors. He has appeared in numerous TV and radio interviews, presented many international scientific seminars and written many blog posts. He also serves as an external examiner of graduate students of several Universities: Humboldt (Germany), Makerere (Uganda), Pretoria University (South Africa), University of Helsinki (Finland), Howard University (USA) and Norwegian University of life science. Dr Nkonya is a member to some professional Associations like: 1. African Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics (AfJARE) - since 2006. 2. European Agricultural Economics Association (EAEA) - since 2008. 3. International Association of Agricultural Economics (IAAE) - since 2006. 4. European Association of Environmental and Resource Economists (since 2014) etc. Despite having already spent over three decades in the United States, the Nkonya family, his wife (Dr. Leticia Nkonya) and four children, “we always try to make sure that we remain Tanzanians from the bottom of our hearts.” Truly, this hard-working family man from ‘Ikunguilipu village’ is quietly but majestically raising our Tanzanian flag across those influential and international institutions abroad. Yes, he is worthy to be illustrated! -------------------------------- David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com