THE Kempiski Hotels S.A. has lost an application for enforcement of cost payments amounting to £3,855,164.55 (over 12bn/-) in arbitration proceedings involving Zamani Resorts Limited and Executive Director with Business and Property Registration Agency of Zanzibar. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Gerald Ndika and Rehema Kerefu ruled in favour of Zamani Resorts Limited, the respondent, after “striking out” with costs the application for revision lodged by the hotel group, whose head office is in Geneva, against the ruling and order of the High Court of Zanzibar at Vuga. “.....we uphold the respondent’s preliminary objection on the first point as we find the present application misconceived. In consequence, we strike out the application with costs,” the justices declared. In the application, Kempiski Hotels S.A, the applicant, had challenged the refusal by the High Court to grant winding up proceedings against the respondent in a bid to enforce arbitration costs issued by the International Court of Arbitration. During the hearing session, however, the respondent filed five grounds of objection, with the first one stating, among others, that the application for revision is incompetent for being made as an alternative to an existing right of appeal. In their ruling delivered in Zanzibar recently, the justices were of considered opinion that as the winding up petition was primarily lodged under the provisions of section 218 (e) of the Decree, thus, the applicant had recourse to appeal in terms of section 268 (1) of the said Decree. “The above provisions, in our view, unambiguously create a right of appeal to this Court against any order or decision of the High Court made in the winding up of a company,” they pointed out. They were, however, quick to point out that such right is exercisable subject to seeking and obtaining leave in terms of section 5 (1) (c) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act, as it exists “subject to the same conditions as an appeal from any order or decision of the court in cases within its ordinary jurisdiction.” “We would add that, we are not surprised that all the five grounds upon which the notice of motion was predicated save for the first ground of complaint are clearly contentions based on points of law which should have fittingly been pursued in an appeal instead of revision proceedings,” they said. On March 21, 2013, the respondent initiated arbitration proceedings against the applicant under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Court of Arbitration for breach of contract seeking damages amounting to approximately 20 million US dollars exclusive of interest. The Arbitral Tribunal dismissed the claim on September 16, 2015 and awarded the applicant £ 3,500,000 as party costs and 244,000 US dollars as arbitration costs, both amounts attracting interest at the rate of two per cent per annum from the date of the award until final payment. Being aggrieved, the respondent moved the Arbitral Tribunal for inter alia, review, revision and correction of the award in respect of costs. On February 24, 2016, the Tribunal issued an Addendum to the Award, dismissing the respondent’s application. As a consequence, it condemned the first respondent to pay additional costs amounting to £ 38,000.00 as party costs and US$ 7,000.00 as arbitration costs. Thus, the total costs awarded against the first respondent stood at £3,855,164.55. Such amount remained outstanding even after the applicant had served on the first respondent a statutory demand for immediate payment. So as to enforce payment, on April 12, 2017, the applicant instituted winding up proceedings in the High Court of Zanzibar at Vuga. As it turned out, the proceedings were greeted by a preliminary objection raised by the respondent on five grounds. Having heard the submissions of both parties, the High Court upheld two points and found no pressing need to resolve the other three grounds. The court held that the winding up proceedings were wrongly instituted under the Decree which had ceased to have effect since April 3, 2017 upon the repealing law, the Companies Act No. 15 of 2013, coming into force of the legal notice issued by the Minister for Trade, Industries and Marketing. Additionally, the court agreed with the contention that the winding up petition had been instituted prematurely on the ground that Zamani Resorts Limited had already filed a petition in the High Court of Tanzania, Commercial Division at Dar es Salaam, challenging the enforcement of the arbitral award. The winding up petition was consequently struck out with costs. Aggrieved, the applicant lodged the application in question, contesting the legality of the proceedings before the High Court and the decision thereon.