FANS are rushing for tickets, ahead of the gigantic Mainland Premier League clash between traditional rivals Simba versus Young Africans at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. With only 24 hours remaining before the giants battle tension has gripped both camps. It has been a long wait for many football fans in the country to witness the big clash but from today, 24 hours remains before the giants come face to face. The two teams occupy the top two positions in the league standings, with runaway Simba opening a ten point lead at the summit, following a 2-0 win over Mtwara’s Ndanda FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. The victory saw the defending champions strengthening their grip of the top position after collecting 34 points from 13 games. Their close competitors and traditional rivals Yanga settled in second position with 24 points from 11 outings. Survey across several tickets selling centres observed several fans of both Simba and Yanga turning up to purchase their tickets ahead of the battle. Victory is crucial for both sides as it will paint a picture on which side is likely to win the title this season. The situation will certainly force both teams to fight tooth and nail to win the encounter; hence fierce fight is much anticipated. Both teams are bragging to snatch maximum points and Yanga received a major boost yesterday, following the arrival of gifted Rwandese midfielder, Haruna Niyonzima, who is rejoining the club after two-year spell with Simba. Niyonzima, who was dropped by Simba and later spent six months at Rwandese top flight side, AS Kigali jetted yesterday afternoon brimming with confidence that he has come to haunt Simba. On the other hand, Simba were due to welcome Mozambique striker, Luis Jose Misquissone, who is set to join the club from UD Songo. Ahead of the match, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ibrahim Mwayela said yesterday that all preparations are progressing well. “As you know, when these two teams meet, the experience you get is totally different from other games that is why we need to ensure that all the required procedures have been put together to avoid problems,” he said. He urged fans to buy tickets early to avoid commotion, which usually comes when people buy them on the match day. Moreover, Mwayela said the only authorised ticket seller is Selcom and disclosed that no tickets will be sold around the premises of the National Stadium and instead, they will be sold at Uhuru Stadium. Meanwhile, the management of Young Africans on Thursday welcomed three passionate fans who cycled for six days from Mtwara to watch tomorrow's derby match against Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Briefing the media shortly after welcoming them, the club's General Secretary David Luhago said they are happy to have finally welcomed the three supporters, saying what they have done is a big reputation to the club. “Since you have safely arrived, we will take care of your affairs and give you free tickets so that you can watch the big game,” Luhago said. Speaking on behalf of his fellow cyclists, Hassan Abdallah said they are pleased to have fulfilled their long trip and ready to back up the team tomorrow.