THE day has come and Tanzania will face Burundi in the second leg of FIFA Women World Cup Under-17 qualifiers in Bujumbura. Under Head Coach, Bakari Shime, the girls are determined to return home with an aggregate win after a 5-1 victory advantage at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam a fortnight ago. Tanzania arrived in Bujumbura, Burundi from Dar es Salaam on Thursday January with a contingent of 25 players and officials. The team trained at the match venue yesterday and all players are reportedly in high spirit ready for the clash to finish off Burundi. Coach Shime said that they had good training at home and they were able to look at the mistakes of the first leg and he expects his team to avoid them to ensure a win in an away game. Shime clearly knows that their opponents need to score four unanswered goals to jump into the next phase of the contest and this is why he said his tactical approach will be the same, attack their opponents from the word go and score more goals to create a mountain for them to come back. “We will play to win in Burundi to have a good chance of progressing further in the competition. Our target now is to do well in all our games as a guarantee to take us deeper in the qualifiers,” Shime said in his last interview before heading to the battlefield. He added that from now onwards, their target is to win every game regardless whether they play at home or away a thing he said will help a lot to encourage the spirit of confidence among his charges. “We are ready for the game and all my players are healthy and strong. We got a new plan and I am sure the plan will work out well and ensure an away win.” “I have to admit that there are mistakes we observed in our prior game in Dar es Salaam and we have worked on them, together with my fellow technical staff, we are looking forward to avoid repetitions. Football is a game of mistakes, all you are required is not to repeat the mistakes,” he said. On the players’ side, Joyce Meshack, who was among the goal scorers in the first leg, insisted that they will go for nothing but victory today. However, she acknowledge that Burundi as one of the good teams and they will not under rate them. “We do not under rate our opponents; they are good and playing at home will give them much boost but a win will be a mandatory for us. We are all ready to face our opponents with total confidence,” she said. In the first leg, Tanzania played an attractive game, winning possession in the midfield. Aisha Masaka scored three goals; The other two goals were netted by Joyce Meshack and Protasia Mbunda. Burundi consolation goal was netted by Lydia Karenzo. Her teammate Rahabu Mfunya said they will respect Burundi because if they managed to score one away goal, they are also capable to use well home advantage. “The most important thing for us is to be well prepared and play to win without giving them chances to score against us," said him. Also, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), General Secretary, Wilfred Kidao said they have high hopes in the departing team to do well in Burundi. “On our side, we have done everything necessary to ensure that the team excel in Burundi. We have already sent a representative there to take care of logistics when the team arrive,” said him. The winner on aggregate between Tanzania and Burundi will face either Uganda or Ethiopia at the next qualifying stage.