ALL we get is time and choices, we ought to be wise with both, but still...time is a limited resource. Once you waste it, expecting to have it again is a day dream! I remember throughout my primary, high school and college days, one proverb always reigned: “time wasted is never recovered!” During those days, to most youngies, that phrase most likely sounded like guitar strings to a goat. It fell on deaf ears, and I mean literally! All grown and fully mature now, I can understand the hurt and frustration of teachers, lecturers and professors alike, as they tried and still try to educate the young ones so that they could be privileged enough to escape the mistakes some of them made in their "time". So, what to do when rigidity reigns?. Social media can be a great time consumer, but don't allow it to ruin your life. Many a times we pray for jobs. Some even go as far as fasting so as to invoke their blessings, favor and grace from the most high, but when the job blessings finally suffice, how do you actually treat it? Are you the type that gets to the office, put on your headphones and go straight to YouTube? Or stays online the whole day tweeting and retweeting? What time do you really work? Are you really able to give your job the seriousness it deserves? Unless you are a social media influencer, stay away from social media during work hours! Unless you earn from the internet, focus on your work. If you can’t respect your job, at least try to respect the time allocated to it and you will see amazing results. Time wasting is a great detailer of progress Well, we cannot foresee the future, but we can at least have a glimpse of it today by our day to day habits. Every year we set goals, we have this year's aspirations as fresh as the morning dew. We even attach timelines to the goals, which is very commendable actually. We even start working towards them, but along the way, we are distracted and our focus deviated. The year comes to an end, and we don’t even remember what we set. We wasted time on unnecessary things, and we are still stagnated in the place we were years ago. No progress at all. If only we realised that time is a limited resource and attach some seriousness it deserves, then maybe we would be a step closer to achieving our goals each day. Candy crushing crushes your time, adios! Each time I board a bus to work or to run some errands, all the people around me seem to have a lot of fun with the games on their phones, the most outstanding being Candy Crush! Yes! So on a really fateful day, I decided to try the game...And loh and behold!..What an addictive habit! It was indeed fun, and I could play it even up to 2 am. In case you haven’t noticed, it turned into a habit with time and later into an addiction! I could play it at work during work hours and even in church during the service. I could no longer enjoy reading books, watching a movie or even holding meaningful conversations with people around me, the game was extremely important to me than anything else. It completely took over me! Indeed, I was a mess. I thank God that I regained my senses early in time and uninstalled it at level 1,679!. Those games on your phones are great, but don’t allow them to take control over you. They can indeed waste one’s time... I can attest to that. The wrong people waste your time as well. Ever looked at the people you once loved, revered and respected and wondered the stuff you were high on back then? Yes, at times you even cried and starved yourself because you could not stomach the fact that they were not talking to you. You blamed yourself for things that weren’t even your fault! They just went silent, ghosted and you kept wondering how they managed to do it when they always vowed to you that they will be there through the wind, the storm and in all kinds of weather. Yes! I know exactly how it feels. That awkward moment when you try to reset the memory of your mind to completely get rid of them, but they stick there like a deadly virus. Yes it hurts, but you should realize that they were there to teach you a lesson. Now that you have experience, study them first before allowing them into your inner circle. A heartbreak is better than knowing that you wasted time on the wrong people! You will never be the same again. Growth is a process. It indeed is an evolution. This evolution is attached to age, and therefore, one is better placed doing some things when they are in their respective age. It is no wonder you will hear people using references like, “what they are doing is not for their age, ” or “she is too old for this drama!” To avoid such references, why don't you do what you ought to do while you still have the time? Yes I know maturity is not in age, but just try to avoid some embarrassments, literally! Just learn to allocate time the seriousness it deserves. If people love, value and respect you, reciprocate. You will miss them when they will be gone and philosophy will become your portion. Don’t waste that job opportunity, don’t waste the time you have to read that book, don’t waste that golden opportunity you have to go back to school, and most definitely, don’t waste that business opportunity. Remember, hard work puts you where good luck can find you. Most importantly, don’t take God for granted, for He is the reason you have that time.