IN the 1990s, Young Africans had very good players. They included Bakari Malima, ‘Jembe Ulaya,’ Nonda Shabani and midfield dynamo, Yusuf Macho who was better known by his fans as ‘Musso’, named after a South Korean SUV which was powered by Mercedes Benz engine. Nonda arrived in Tanzania as a refugee from Burundi where fighting had been going on. But it later turned out that he was not Burundian, but a citizen from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The young Congolese had thus simply used the confusion that had reigned at the time in the region to get to Tanzania where he could use his football talent to get to Europe. In Simba there were also many talents that included Selemani Matola. But I will come back to him later. Nonda was not given a lot of playing time while at Yanga. However, when the club took on South Africa’s Vaal Professionals in the Champions League, Nonda was given 40 minutes. He immediately caught the eyes of South Africans. Other players who attracted the attention of the South Africans were Malima and Macho. After the South Africans were knocked out of the continental tournament by Yanga, Malima and Nonda remained in South Africa. Malima and Nonda played for Vaal Professionals and Macho joined Jomo Cosmos where he played for one season and would later be forced out after sustaining a knee injury. Later it was the turn of Simba’s Matola to try his luck in professional soccer in South Africa. Matola joined Mamelodi Sundown. However, he played for one season only and found the going tough. What is sad is that all the three Tanzanian players, Macho, Malima and Matola could not survive the rigours of professional football in South Africa. They all eventually returned home. Only Macho and Matola had lasted one season. Malima could not. He returned to his comfort zone in Yanga. Yet when playing for Yanga, both Macho and Malima were irreplaceable. Nonda had a lot of difficulties getting playing time in Yanga because of the high quality of players in the club at the time. But as Matola, Macho and Malima were returning home, Nonda headed to the heart of Europe, in Switzerland, where he joined Grasshoppers FC. Before long, Nonda caught the eyes of Monaco scouts where he played for several years as a regular before he joined later Chelsea in his last soccer years. Nonda is presently a very successful business man in the DRC. He was guided to where he is today through his attitudes, something our players lack. In fact, while playing for Monaco, Nonda admitted that his soccer standard could not be compared in any way with Macho. The million dollar question we all now need to ask ourselves is; why did Macho, Matola and Malima fail where Nonda succeeded? To understand some of the reasons, apart from attitudes, which may have led to the three Tanzanian players’ failure in South Africa, let us take a glance at Nonda’s life in Dar es Salaam during the short period he lived in Tanzania. Nonda attended French classes at the Alliance francaise in the city during the entire morning and reported for training in the evening. But let us also not forget that when Nonda arrived in Tanzania, he had already completed his secondary education in the DRC. But he was not satisfied with his French which he thought was not good enough if he wanted to play professional football, especially in a French speaking country. Nonda also knew that in terms of football standings in Europe, it was easier to get your way in Switzerland than in France where his really goal lay. For my readers who may not know, three languages are spoken in Switzerland and these are German, French and English although French is dominant. In short, before Nonda set out for Tanzania through Burundi, he was already very clear in his mind what he wanted to do in his life, to play football both for fun and as a means for earning his livelihood. He wanted to do that, not in Tanzania or South Africa, but in Europe, and preferably, in France. Again the proverbial million dollar question is; do our budding soccer players know what they want in life when they decide to involve themselves in soccer? If they knew what they wanted in life, they would have done what Nonda did, prepare themselves linguistically before venturing into soccer playing career in countries like South Africa, Switzerland, France, Spain and England. If you asked me why Macho, Malima and Matola failed, my answer is attitudes. This is because Nonda admits that they were all better than him. If they had had the right attitudes which Nonda had, firstly they would not have given up so easily. Secondly, they would have done something about their language, English. Yes, how do you get around South African cities if you have language problems? South Africans have 12 official languages which includes their vernaculars. But English is the dominant language. I decided to raise this issue of language today because many parents, guardians and budding footballers are likely to emulate the new kid on the block, Mbwana Ali Samatta, after learning the kind of money he is getting after joining Aston Villa. Samatta speaks good English and so are other Tanzanian players currently plying their ware abroad -- Himid Mao in Egypt and Thomas Ulimwengu in Algeria. Although I don’t know much about Simon Msuva but he would not have remained in Morocco that long if he was poor in English. Parents, guardians and budding soccer players, the ball is now in your court.