IT is believed that, if you love what you do then you are practically not working in your life! This is simply because what you do, you tend to do with passion, willingness and it guarantees your happiness. “Yes, I am very happy and truly, I am in love with my profession!” Says MARY WALUKAYA MGAWE, a Radio & Television Editor and Anchor, ‘Duniani Leo (The World Today)’ of the VOA (Voice of America) Swahili from Washington DC. Already as a child back home in Tanzania, Mary had this dream of becoming a TV presenter! “I used to watch a Kenyan music TV show by Fred Machokaa. I would say, such thoughts inspired me a lot.” Mary was born in Dares- Salaam, on August 8th 1975 to Mama Immaculate Mgawe (a housewife and businesswoman) and the late Baba Eddis Mgawe a former Tanzanian Police Commissioner. “We were seven children with four girls and three boys. However, a second baby boy died many years ago.” Mary’s path of education began at the Oyster Bay Primary School (Dares- Salaam) “I then moved to Shinyanga, where I ended up attending at Kiraeni Secondary School.” At the tender age of 19 years, Mary was already crossing around the corridors of the Tanzania School of Journalism, studying for a certificate in journalism (broadcasting). There again, her enthusiasm and willingness to learn, opened the doors for her to join the Independent Television & Radio One (ITV) by the year 1996. “Though quite young and inexperienced, I was lucky to be included in that early ITV batch with some big names of those days; Julius Naissangah, Florah Nducha, Mikidadi Mahmood, Susan Mungi, Abubakari Li ongo, Betty Mkwasa, Sunday Shomari, Charles Hilary, Blandina Mongezi, Charles Hilary, John Ngahyoma and many more.” Recently, I had an opportunity to talk to Mary when she came for a working visit to Tanzania. The lady was too quick to points out that the terrorist attack of bombing the US Embassy in Dares- Salaam in August 7th 1998 remains to be among most memorable journalistic live coverage that she ever participated. “Until now, almost 22 years later, I still feel the real devastations, anger, frustrations, and misery of the people during that time!” Mary worked at the ITV until 1999, “as a Radio and TV anchor, reading news and hosting programs like sports and ‘Kumekucha’, the most popular morningshow in Tanzania aired at 6 am (Monday to Friday), coverage of all events analysing hot and top stories from all over the world.” In between, Mary did manage to increase her knowledge in the field of journalism through undertaking and later graduating with a ‘Bachelor of Inter-disciplinary studies’ at the Catholic University of Washington DC in the US (in 2011). Furthermore, she continued for her Master’s Degree in Communication (in 2018). Mary Mgawe is married to Mr Augustino Malinda (a Journalist and computer specialist), the couple is blessed with three children, the twins (David and Daniel) and (Danielle- Aamanda). “No question, they are my pillars and my thoughts are permanent with them.” So far, Mary Mgawe has been presented with several awards, being recognised for her unique and superb performance at the VOA: 1). Certificate of Superior Accomplishment Award- VOA 2008. 2). Certificate of superior accomplishment Award- VOA 2010. 3). The quality step increase Award 2017. 4). Certificate of superior accomplishment Award – Dunia Leo TV-show 2019. Through hard work and determination, Mary Mgawe managed to fulfil her dream; “of becoming a TV presenter” since mid of the 1990s, while employed by the Independent Television & Radio One (ITV), Mary’s face and voice became quite familiar to many TV viewers and Radio listeners across Tanzania. And now with her successful move to Washington DC’s Voice of America (VOA), Mary is on the right track to conquer the rest of the world. “Natumai Mwaka umeuanza vyema. Mimi hapa Sauti ya Amerika nawatakia Mwaka Mpya Mwema!” Yes, Mary Walukaya Mgawe has truly walked the thoughts! There she is today, bravely raising our Tanzanian flag, a role model for many and worthy to be illustrated. David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com 