The former Simba SC striker has concluded a ‘dream’ move to English Premier League side Aston Villa from Belgian KRC Genk. Villa have been desperately searching the market for a new forward after Wesley Moraes, the club-record arrival from Club Brugge, was ruled out for the rest of the season. According to the BirminghamLive Samatta becomes the third arrival of the January window at Villa Park. Here’s what you need to know about Samatta: Who is he? Captain of the Tanzania national team, Taifa Stars, Samatta was born in the country’s capital, Dar es Salaam, in 1992. He began his career with local academy in Mbagala, before joining Mbagala Market, which later was renamed African Lyon, before turning professional in 2010 with Simba SC. He lasted at the Msimbazi Street club for just six months and his performance caught the eye of top continental clubs. Samatta then moved to DR Congo to sign for TP Mazembe and continued his development in Africa for another five years, helping his side win the domestic title, top-scoring in the CAF Champions League and being named African Player of the Year for domestic leagues before Genk snapped him up in 2016. Record at Genk Having signed a fourand-a-half-year contract with Genk, Samatta initially struggled to adapt to life in Belgium, scoring only five times in his first 18 appearances. But things have picked up since then and with the exception of the 2017/18 campaign, he has raced to double figures in each of his seasons in Belgium. The 27-year-old’s best figures came last term as he helped fire Genk to the title with 20 goals in 28 league games and 32 goals in 51 appearances in all competition, including nine in the Europa League. Samatta hasn’t been quite as prolific in the current season but still boasts a decent record with 10 goals in 28 outings, 26 of which have been in the First Division A and Champions League. He has scored 76 goals in 191 games for the club in total. What is he like? The forward is described as being pacey with a ‘nose for goals’. He works a lot for the team, according to our source, and heads the ball well. How much he has cost Aston Villa Samatta transfer deal has cost Aston Villa around £8.5m. A move to the Premier League is said to be a ‘dream come true’ for Samatta who will become the first Tanzanian to play in the top-flight. He becomes the third player to head to B6 from the Belgian top-flight this season, following Wesley and Marvelous Nakamba from Brugge in the summer.