OVER 470 m/-the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) released to finance Oldonyowas Secondary School projects in Arusha District council have been wisely spent to construct girl student hostels among others. That was revealed by the School’s Headmaster, Mr Richard Mugyabuso, adding that at 96 of the students now reside at the institution in the dormitories. He further said that the fund was also used to build teachers’ houses, and administration unit. Mr Mugyabuso, while addressing OPEC and TASAF delegation, which visited them to observe the project’s progress, said: “Last year, 12 female students did not report to the school. This year, 169 students (both males and females) have been selected to join us, but only 86 have so far reported, and this is the second week, since the schools reopened, but we guess some of them are reluctant because of long journeys they have to trek. With special arrangement of hostels, we believe many will come.” He said that the dormitories would help the girls from temptations to indulge in early marriages, and truancy. However, he appealed to the government and development partners to continue supporting their constructions to cater for all 146 female students at the institution, saying: “But even males students require hostels. Accommodation for all the students will increase the school’s performance.” On his part, OPEC Senior Operations Officer, Mr Sharagim Shams said that they were satisfied with the way all projects at the school have been managed. However, he appealed to the students to study hard, saying: “As development partners, and the government having been investing much in you, I urge you to stick to education for your personal benefits.” TASAF has been implementing about 413 OPEC sponsored development projects in Arusha region worth over 14.2bn/-. According to TASAF Regional Coordinator, Mr Mathias Seif the projects have been mostly on agriculture, livestock, road infrastructures, health, environment, education and income generating activities.