EQUALITY amongst human beings, aptly captured by its Kiswahili equivalent, ‘Binadamu wote ni sawa’, and which is more commonly known by virtue of that being the national language, is supposed to be one of the principles upon which Tanzanian nationhood is anchored. The principle is indeed supposed to resonate across the globe, for the simple reason that, essentially, no set, or sets of human beings, all of whom are creations of one God, have the right to perceive themselves as being superior to others, to whom they would paste the characterisation “inferior”. Colonialism, to which Tanzania, stretching back to when the mainland component was originally known as Tanganyika, had the misfortune of being subjected, was notorious for wanton disregard to the principle of equality. The distortion took a primarily racial form, under which people of white complexion were perceived to be superior, Asians and Africans being treated as inferior in that order. The government of independent Tanzania embarked on injecting sanity into the society, under which the notions of some people perceiving themselves as being superior to others on purely racial terms were earnestly fought. We have had to contend, however, with notions of the male gender being perceived as superior to the female one. The most appalling aspect, beyond marriage as a sacred institution that embraces men and women who graduate into husbands and wives, is to perceive girls and women as tools for the satisfaction of the sexual desires of males. Sexual exploitation is especially repugnant, being manifested considerably by men manipulating females for immoral ends. Particularly vulnerable are schoolgirls at various levels who are targeted by the crooks, who seek sexual favours in exchange for inappropriately enabling female pupils and students to pass examinations. At the higher level, that male species preys on desperate female job seekers. It is heartening that various initiatives are ongoing to curb the immoral practices, predicated on the principle of gender equality. The initiatives should actually be pursued on a war footing scale as the problem has virtually assumed crisis dimensions. We wish, to that end, to congratulate the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau in Dodoma for its plans to embark on a sensitisation programme in public schools and teachers’ colleges on curbing sexual exploitation in academic institutions. The thrust is to neutralise the obnoxious “females are inferior” notion.