THE Rukwa Regional Commissioner, Joachim Wangabo has said the completion of road project linking Sumbawanga–Matai-Kasanga will help attract more tourists as well as woo investors into the Kalambo Water Falls Reserve Forest. The 112 km Sumbawanga – Matai – Kasanga Port - section of road is an aerial link between Rukwa Region and the neighbouring Zambia, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Burundi via Lake Tanganyika. He said the construction of the road project funded by the government will unlock the region’s investment opportunities including the Kalambo Falls, the most attractive tourism site that could be promoted to attract more investors. Mr Wangabo made the remarks while addressing the First Rukwa Regional Road Board – RRB during a meeting held here recently. “I encourage locals and others from across the World to come and witness the World heritage site as announced by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO),” he said. He further explained that the government is keen promoting the Kalambo water falls and that funds have been allocated to upgrade the 17 km road section from Kawala village to Kalambo Falls to tarmac level. Kalambo Falls is said to be Africa’s second tallest free-leaping or single-drop waterfall (second to one of the tiers of Tugela Falls in South Africa) at 221m. At 221m in height Kalambo Falls is twice as high as Victoria Falls and the second-highest single-drop waterfall in Africa (the highest being Tugela Falls in South Africa). From spectacular viewpoints near the top of the falls, can be seen in the Kalambo River plummeting off a steep V-shaped cliff cut into the Rift Valley escarpment down into a deep valley, which then winds towards Lake Tanganyika. As a matter of fact, the Kalambo River defines the Tanzania-Zambia border all the way into the vast Lake Tanganyika, which itself is shared by a foursome of countries including DRC, Burundi, Zambia and Tanzania. According to Rukwa Regional Tanroads Manager, Eng Mkina Masuka the chinese contractor, China Railway 15 Bureau Group (CR15BG) & Newcentry JV from China have accomplished the construction of Sumbawanga – Matai – Kasanga port road by 99 per cent at the cost of over 133,2bn.