SIMIYU Region is set to tap various economic opportunities in the East African region through the ongoing railway and port infrastructure development. The initiative is aimed at making Simiyu residents benefit from their geographical orientations and natural resources and integrate with the ongoing mega infrastructure construction. Simiyu Regional Commissioner (RC), Anthony Mtaka said recently that one of the projects was the construction of port at its Lake Victoria that will simplify water transport in his region and other countries. “The port will allow mega ships to dock in Simiyu and simplify movement of people and goods across the World’s second biggest fresh water body lake towards other parts of Tanzania and other East African countries like Kenya and Uganda,” he said. He added that the envisaged port would as well promote tourism network across Simiyu and other Lake Zone regions and EAC member states. He said that other plans were to construct a dry port in Maswi area to handle transit cargos, which will be complemented by mega projects currently implemented like the construction of the standard gauge railway (SGR) and the rehabilitation of the central railway line and promote movement of goods between the Tanzania’s seaports, Lake Zone regions and neighboring countries. The RC went on to narrate that Simiyu was endowed with tourism attraction by bordering one of the Seven Wonders of the World of the Serengeti National park as well as the construction of airport are on the right truck for the region which house 1.6 million population according to the 2012 census. “This gives another option for tourists visiting different attractions in East African region to choose going to Simiyu through water ways, roads, railway direct to the region,” he added. Mr Mtaka said efforts are in place to ensure that there are skilled personnel to take part in the projects currently under implementation. This, he said has prompted to spearhead efforts of ensuring that youth are not just attending schools but also getting quality education. He went on to detail that secondary school education is not an end but efforts are in place to promote college and university education in the region so that it can attract people from other parts of EAC to search for skills within Simiyu. He said so far, the Dar es Salaam based Institute of Finance Management is constructing its lake Zone branch there to offer financial courses. He said after realizing that the ongoing implementation of infrastructure projects require qualified personnel, Simiyu Region has attracted an attention of Bandari College which will also open a branch in the near future to offer courses on transport like Clearing and forwarding, cargo handling. This is an opportunity for the youth to grab and contribute to economic growth.