THE Export and Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) has handed over 100m/- contribution to the government to support an ongoing push on the state owned entities to improve revenue collection. EPZA joins the long list of other 266 state owned agencies, corporations and institutions to provide contribution to the government with the aim of improving revenue collection. The Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango said in Dodoma on Wednesday after receiving dividends from EPZA and other 12 public entities that the contribution made by government entities was vital in the quest to collect more revenue to finance its development agendas. “I thank all the institutions that have complied with the directives issued by President John Magufuli to pay contribution necessary for the improvement of the lives of Tanzanians,” he said. He said the government plans to cut foreign borrowing and the only solution was to strengthen its internal revenue collections. Statistics show that contribution and dividend from government entities have risen to over 1tri/- in the 2018/19 financial year from 161.04bn/- in 2014/15 where only 24 institutions were involved. The contribution and dividend from the government owned corporations, agencies and institutions make some 50 per cent of non tax revenues. As an autonomous government agency operating under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, EPZA is responsible for steering and implementing government policy of promoting special economic zones in the country. The EPZA Investment Promotion Manager, Grace Lemunge said the authority offers wide range of investment supporting services, investment facilitation, licensing, development of special economic zones infrastructure linkages to a range of investment opportunities. “The export processing zone scheme promotes investment in manufacturing sector mainly for export while special economic zones register investment for both local as well as export markets involving other sectors like agriculture, trade, tourism, mining and forestry,” she said. She said EPZA provides pre and after care services including provision of guidance and comprehensive information about the establishment of special economic zones and special economic zones investment in Tanzania.