TWO Indian nationals, Manish Khattar (38) and Rajesh Velram (52), appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Thursday charged with fraud, unlawful transportation of forestry products, money laundering and evading pay over 117m/-as tax. They were not allowed to enter plea to the charges before Principal Resident Magistrate, Janeth Mtega because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate could not also consider bail for accused as her court lacked jurisdiction and money laundering is unbailable offence. The case was adjourned to February 12, 2020, for mention. The prosecution, led by State Attorneys, Elizabeth Mkunde and Silvia Mitanto, informed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. Prosecuting, the trial attorneys told the court that on diverse dates between October 1 and November 31, 2015 within the United Republic of Tanzania, jointly and together with others persons not in court, intentionally and with intent to defraud the two accused organized and managed a criminal racket. The court heard that the accused persons forged an invoice for a container dated November 11, 2015, purporting to show that it belongs to Red Sun Africa Timber Limited, the fact which was untrue. It is alleged that within the same period and with intent to defraud, the two accused persons forged a parking list for the container, purportedly showing that it is owned by the said Company, while it was false. The prosecution told the court further that within the same period and with intent to defraud, Khattar and Velram forged a clearing agent authorization letter dated November 12, 2015, purporting to show that it was issued by the Company. It is alleged that between January 1 and October 31, 2015 in Dar es Salaam within the United Republic of Tanzania and unknown places in the Republic of Zambia, the duo transported forestry produce, which are Makula logs, valued at 117,468,000/-, the property of the government of Tanzania. The prosecution told the court further that within the same period, the accused persons failed to pay the said sum as tax and duties payable to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Khattar and Velram were also charged with money laundering in that within the period, they directly engaged themselves in a transaction relating to the container loaded with Makula logs valued at the sum of 117m/-. According to the prosecution, the accused knew that the container was loaded with consignments that are proceeds of predicate offences of forgery, tax evasion, smuggling and environmental crimes.