ON Wednesday, this week, I spoke at length over the importance of attitudes in determining a player’s success or otherwise in the realm of professional soccer. I also quoted, extensively, over a recently published book by a Kenyan BBC Journalist, John Nene, titled Joe Kadenge: The Life of a Legend. The Joe Kadenge book which is about the life of a Kenyan right winger who mesmerized the region’s soccer enthusiasts with his speed and body swerves on soccer pitches is a must read book for any journalist, and Tanzanians in particular. Through this book, which I would, as soon as I’m through with it, provide my 'Daily News' readers with a lengthy review over its contents, has documented, extensively, the development of soccer not only in Kenya but also in Tanzania, Uganda and Zanzibar. However, what stands out very clearly in the book is the author’s success in demonstrating the importance of attitudes in soccer through his portrayal of the late soccer maestro, Joe Kadenge. In old days Tanzania, Kadenge can only be compared to the best defender ever produced in this country, left full-back Mohamed Chuma from Mtwara who has since passed on. Mohamed Chuma was not only outstanding both as a footballer and defender, but was also very religious. This is a player who travelled along with his mat for praying, and unlike other players in the national team during his time; he did not take alcohol and never sampled night life. People talk, loquaciously and animatedly, about Napoli’s Kalidou Koulibaly. I have fortunately seen both players in action. But Mohamed Chuma was out of this world. A clean, hard tackler who represented Tanzania for over ten years, Mohamed Chuma retired in 1975 without getting a red card or being benched after injury. That is why you cannot compare him with Koulibaly! Had Mohamed Chuma been around today, he would have been a billionaire as he would have been sought after by clubs like Liverpool, Barcelona, Real Madrid or PSG. Mohamed Chuma appears in one of the pictures in the Joe Kadenge book. But because he is unknown to the author he is simply described as one of Tanzania’s players in the caption. In the book, Kadenge explains to Nene why he decided to quit from the Kenyan national soccer team immediately they landed in Nairobi from Khartoum, Sudan. He says, while in Sudan, his colleagues stole towels and other small items from their respective hotel rooms. And, as if that was not bad enough, one of the players stole his colleague’s underpants! Having done that, says Kadenge, “the suspect slept with all his clothes on for fear of being nabbed over the under pant.” Kadenge does not understand how a player can steal, of all the things in the world, a colleague’s under pant and adds, “How can a player playing for the national team fail to buy his own underclothes?” Apparently this was the second stealing incident Kadenge had noted from some of his colleagues. The first incident happened in 1957 in Zanzibar during the Gossage Cup tournament. During the time, says Kadenge, a number of his colleagues stole caps (baragashia) from Zanzibar shops. Kadenge reported the incident to the Kenyan officials. But he does not say what action the officials took against the culprits. But his decision to quit the national team in 1965 appears to have been caused by the officials’ failure to take action on his colleagues. Kadenge says a player must live with dignity. After those stealing incidents, Kadenge says, “I did not want to be part of a team that stole items from hotel rooms.” Indeed, if national or club players are given to stealing towels, sandals and other items in hotel rooms, how can such players concentrate on football? As we can deduce from Joe Kadenge and Tanzania’s Mohamed Chuma, a player’s good attitude is extremely important for one’s success in professional football. You don’t expect a mat carrying player like what Mohamed Chuma used to do, to be involved in such debasing incidents like stealing items from hotel rooms. It is no wonder that Mohamed Chuma played for the national team for over 15 years without being benched for on account of anything including injuries or low form. In today’s modern day football, Joe Kadenge and Mohamed Chuma can be compared to Mbwana Samatta, who has just joined Aston Villa in England. Samatta got to where he is today because of his good attitudes. During a live SOCCER AFRICA programme which was aired by SuperSport from Johannesburg, South Africa through DStv, on Thursday night this week, the panelists that included the old Mamadou Gaye, showered praise on Samatta for joining Kenya’s Victor Wanyama in the English Premier League’s top-flight. One of the panelists who is best known as TK explained to his colleagues how Samatta at 19 and playing for TP Mazembe approached him for assistance to play for a top South African club. But TK says, “I told the young man I could not do that because the TP Mazembe boss was my very close friend.” TK’s collegues in the panel said he missed the opportunity of his life to make money through the Tanzanian super star. You can now note something about Samatta. His vision had always been higher than playing for TP Mazembe. He wanted to play for a top South African club. Even Belgium’s Genk was not good enough for him. He is now with Aston Villa. And for Samatta, the proverbial sky is the limit for him. We have players in this country whose vision is to play for Simba or Yanga. And once they get into either of the two clubs, it is over. Such players will never get where Samatta is. It’s their attitudes. ● Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk