THE dust kicked up –as it were –by the release, recently, of the latest Form Four examination results, is in the final stages of settling. It is quite understandable why considerable interest is focused on that phase of the education-sector event. This is primarily because many people are linked, either directly or distantly, to the issue. At the heart of it all are students who, as candidates, sat examinations associated with the subjects that they studied over a given four-year period. The outcome of examinations is a virtual procedural verdict of how well or badly they performed in the examinations. On the one hand, a candidate who passes with flying colours feels proud and does their parents and broader family circle proud for being an academic hero or heroine. The second category hosts average performers, below which are failures. Factored into the issue are wonders, some of which are near-miracles. Into the latter characterisation fits Yohana Lameck, who, in spite of being a victim of a hostile social environment, emerged with Division One, with seven straight ‘A’s. The ex-student of Igaganulwa Secondary School, a government-run outfit in Simiyu Region has, alongside three siblings, been raised mainly by their mother, Masalu Lulyalya. The young man, who we are confident will remain focused, and moreso against the backdrop of the challenging socio-economic challenges that his family faces, has a potentially bright future ahead of him. What’s more, we have, in our midst, benevolent groups or individuals who are willing to chip in with assistance, to propel noble causes. On the broader front, Yohana’s story hosts a couple of crucial lessons, one of the most basic being that, intelligence is not entirely linked to a person’s socio-economic profile. Exemplary examination success is mainly associated with a set of secondary schools, and for some understandable reasons. They include admission of Standard Seven leavers who perform excellently in competitive entrance exams, from amongst whom high Form Four candidates emerge. However, these are, staff-wise and in terms of facilities, high-cost schools that only economically very well off families can afford. But not all students in these schools are impressive performers. They are far out-performed by the likes of Yohana, who demonstrated that, at the end of the day, students’ mental resourcefulness counts considerably on academic success.