AFTER two weeks of silence in the ongoing mini transfer window, Simba announced the signing of Mozambican attacking midfielder, Luis Jose Miquissone. The Mainland Premier League defending champions moved to sign the winger with their main hopes pegged on winning the league title for the third season on the trot. The 24 years Mozambican has penned down a twoyear contract with Simba from UD Songo, where he was featuring on loan from South Africa’s PSL side Mamelodi Sundowns. Miquissone was also on the radar of Simba’s traditional rivals Young African but the Msimbazi street based side won the chase of the player. He was presented with jersey number 7, previously worn by Ugandan striker Emmanuel Okwi. The diminutive attacker is well known among Simba fans as he helped UD Songo knock out Simba from the CAF Champions League following a 1-1 draw at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on August 25th last year. Miquissone’s set piece in the 13th minute beat the wall to sail into the back of the nets past hapless goalkeeper, Aishi Manula. A late penalty by Erasto Nyoni was not enough to keep the Msimbazi Reds in the competition as Songo progressed to the next round on the away goal rule. Simba have confirmed the capture of the player on their Facebook page saying: “We welcome new signing Luis Jose Miquissone and wish him well as he starts his journey with this great club.” On his part, Miquissone, said: “I am delighted to join a big club like Simba and will look forward to helping them do better in their upcoming matches. I have been following the team since we played against them in the CAF Champions League and I am finally happy to have joined them.” Miquissone, who also plays for the Mozambique national team, The Mambas has been unveiled in time but he is unlikely to be involved when Simba take on rivals Young Africans (Yanga SC) in the opening derby of the season at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Miquissone becomes the first signing for Simba this transfer window. Simba have dropped Brazilian striker Wilker da Silva, who failed to impress since joining the club this season and the player has been released to go for trials in Malaysia. Simba management under Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Senzo Mazingiza said in a press conference mid this week that they are chasing three foreign players in the ongoing mini transfer window including Miquissone. “Currently we are working on the transfer issues because we need to tie all the lose end before making any pronouncement,” he said.