DIPLOMATIC pundits, scholars and economists have condemned doom prayers, who for their extrinsic motivations peddle unfounded human rights rhetoric at the expense of their mother country. They are warning that such treacherous, parochialistic and irreverent move by so called activists should not be considered bluntly without seeking truth from relevant authorities. Along the same line, the analysts questioned the level of their patriotism, hinting that it was ludicrous coming across such a situation where individuals with ill motives communicate with international organisations that have partnership agreements with their government. Speaking exclusively to the ‘Daily News’, the experts, recalled that being a global practice, the detractors should respect boundaries on whatever they are doing and importantly put national interests ahead of selfinterests. The remarks come in the wake of some politicians and self-proclaimed activists pressuring the World Bank call off the US dollars 500 million (about 1.15tr/-) education loan to Tanzania -- the money that is meant to improve education sector and benefit more than six million students in the next five years. “Going by global practice, there is no way that such a reputable international financial institution like World Bank can respond to the concern raised by individuals without consulting the beneficiary (Tanzania),” said Dr Kitojo Wetengere, an expert in diplomacy. He noted that, it is only the government and its counterpart who are in a position to discuss issues of such magnitude. “Individuals who have communicated directly to the bank are tarnishing the image of the country internationally, at a time where Tanzania is focusing on building economic diplomacy,” he said. Vividly irritated by the group’s ill-motivated move, the pundits insisted that every Tanzanian, regardless of his or her political or religious ideology should always observe patriotism on issues that are of great national interests. They were of the view that protesting projects that are billed to improve education sector in the country was tantamount to supporting school dropouts as the loan was meant to bolster learning environment. The analysts hinted that while the government threw full weight behind plans to improve education and ensure that every Tanzanian boy and girl acquires quality education, there are some Janus-faced sons of Tanzania that have opted to play sycophant. They, thus, urged that there must be clear boundaries on activities to be done by politicians and activists a move that would make easier communications between institutions for the greater impact. Professor Felister Mombo from the Morogoro based Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) said the matter should have been handled internally. She reminded those behind the move that whatever defence they will make against the government’s plans on school girls dropouts should be built along the norms and traditions of ‘our country’. Prof Mombo recalled that Tanzania’s norms and traditions prohibits early and school pregnancies, hence there is no way that those who have delivered can be offered the same opportunities at schools, but through alternative education paths. “Those who are behind this, it means they are supporting school dropouts which is too bad. Some of the politicians do things either intentionally or without thinking critically, all they know is to win votes,” she said, hailing the government for maintaining its position. The Principal Research Associate with the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF) Prof Samuel Wangwe said Tanzania as a country, has its agreement with the World Bank and that there was no need for individuals to communicate with the later on anything that has to do with the government. Prof Wangwe emphasised on the importance of education for all, where he maintained that it was the government that can do whatever it takes to improve the sector. “If it was necessary for them to do that, I believe there was a room for consultation between the government and activists, there is always a solution to any problem,” stressed the renowned researcher, insisting that right to education is for all.