ONCE again, I wish all my readers a HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR. In my last column for 2019 published last Saturday, I laid accent on the importance of using this New Year in planning for our sports development. I cautioned the TFF and in particular, our soccer clubs that failure to start using this year for planning their way forward was likely to consign them to the bottom of soccer. For those who may not have read my column, I will once again explain, albeit briefly, why I had emphasized on using this New Year in planning and preparing our teams for the future. Without planning for success, then our teams would be planning for future defeats as lack of planning would never leave a team safe! It would automatically lead them to failure. It’s as simple as that. You don’t plan and simply means that your team will face opponents without preparation and the result is as clear as day and night, a series of defeat. No amount of praying on the part of the fans and the nation at large would save a team that does not plan for its coming soccer or sports tournaments. The only way our premier league clubs can do better in the game than what they are doing is to start controlling their players and that can only be done if they start their own stables for preparing their players from tender age. For instance, for a start, I expect in soccer for the TFF to have its meeting with all the clubs this month to plan with them the way forward. It would not for instance, be a bad idea to call on all the clubs to establish soccer academies of sort back home. They may not have elaborate infrastructure like what Azam FC has. But what about getting primary school boys and girls close to the club to train, under say the club’s assistant coach, before the premier league team start their training? This is exactly what former Young Africans chief coach, Professor Victor Stanculescus did in 1970 when he prepared and would produce the best youthful team to have ever played in this country. The Romanian coach trained the children for two years every day from 2pm and when the time for taking over training sessions for senior team started at 4pm, the children sat around the pitch at the Jangwani Sports Ground (which is presently no more) to watch their seniors and mentors train under the same coach who had trained them. The only thing clubs could do in order to ensure that they only deal with children who attend school, is to get in touch with teachers in order to ensure that only children who attend classes everyday attend the club’s training sessions in the evening. Such monitoring is extremely important in order to ensure that the children combine both academic and soccer training which is crucial in the modern game. What this means is that children who drop out from school, should not be allowed to attend the club’s soccer academy. This is because truancy is already a clear sign of lack of discipline and a truant pupil will never become a good, disciplined player. If all clubs in the premier league do what I have suggested, they are likely to have their own soccer academy players in less than four years. The question is if Professor Victor Stanculescus did it in 1970 to produce players like Adolf Rishard, goalkeeper Juma Pondamali, Mkweche, Gordian Mapango and others, why should premier clubs fail? In fact, if all premier clubs do what I have suggested, after three to four years, Tanzania would have over 100 soccer academy youth from the clubs to pick from both by the clubs and other teams like Serengeti Boys and there would be a marked improvement in the game. The only thing that is perhaps worth emphasizing is that the children should be trained by coaches who have been well trained in the game. If clubs get the right coaches for the kids, it would be easier to impart basic football to the children than what they are presently struggling with grown up players. Indeed, it easier to drill a ten or so year old primary school kid in using both of his or her legs than an adult. There is so much talent out there, that premier league clubs are likely to produce not only players for their clubs, but could also do business with local and international clubs. You can imagine a premier league club producing say three players who turn out not only for the club but also for the national team and such players are bought by a European club at say 3m Euro. What should stop such a local premier league club from using the money in building its own 5,000 seater stadium?