THE government has acknowledged a sharp rise in a number of non-communicable diseases in the country with the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ms Ummy Mwalimu saying: “We are witnessing a huge increase of patients in our health facilities.” Tanzania, just like any part of the world has been struggling to contain rise of the diseases, which range from malaria, tuberculosis, typhoid, to dengue fever by closely increasing budgets in their management. In 2019 alone, the government spent over 284.5bn/- to upgrade some 352 Health Centres, besides constructing 67 new District Hospitals across the country. That was noted by the Minister, while addressing the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Social Service and Community development in Dodoma. She further said that the government was contemplating of inaugurating a special programme that would offer a solution to millions of people in the country, because the rise in the diseases’ cases is not corresponding with investments in their key sectors. “Over 40 per cent of all NIHF collections are currently being spent on servicing non-communicable disease cases,” she said Statistics from the ministry show incidences of communicable diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, typhoid, dengue fever, and others caused by bacteria, parasites and viruses as continuing to be a burden to the nationals. In addition, the National Insurance Health Fund (NIHF) released a list, where malaria, urethra and urinary tract infection as well as amoebiasis and intestinal helminthiases head in the non-communicable diseases in the country. Non-communicable diseases according to the world health organisation (WHO) are the leading causes of death in the world, accounting for 63 per cent of all annual deaths. Most emerging cases include heart diseases, stroke, diabetes, hypertension and cancer. Explaining, Prof Yunus Mgaya, Director General of the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) noted that the country’s leading Cancer Institute-Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) recorded at least 16,546 cancer incidences between 2015 and 2019 and during the same year, Bugando Medical Centre registered some 4,562 cases. In a nutshell, he said: “In every 100,000 people in Dar es Salaam, 20 of them have cancer and in Mwanza it is 19 people, Coastal Region 15, Iringa and Kigoma 11 respectively."