DEPUTY Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Governments - RALG), Mr Mwita Waitara has directed Hai District authority to facilitate utilisation of Constituency Development Funds (CDF) instead of being left idle in the treasury. Mr Waitara noted that there was no valid reason for the authority to keep the funds, which are meant for Hai Parliamentary Constituency development. He made the directive recently while addressing the district’s officials and civil servants when he visited the area, adding that the government was not ready to watch development stuck, just because of unexplained delay by an individual. “It is so sad to here that there is 42m/- meant for development in the district still kept idle in the coffers, just because one person hasn’t decided and played his part to put it in utilisation. May I direct the district government to start the processes and utilize the funds for the benefit of the people in this constituency." “The government cannot tolerate to see people’s funds kept stuck, while there are challenges facing its citizens, like shortage of classrooms, pit toilets for pupils and teachers and health service among others. It’s time we take decisions to end this, if we really want to help President John Magufuli in his noble task to serve the nation,” he said. Expounding, Mr Waitara cautioned the Hai District Commissioner (DC), Mr Lengai Ole Sabaya and other relevant authority within the area to make sure that community projects in the area get the funds. However, he hailed the Hai district administration for its decision to embark on the District hospital construction at Longoi village, Weruweru Ward, saying that it would help the residents to get access to health services close to them. Earlier, in his welcome remarks, DC Sabaya told Mr Waitara that his administration was facing a challenge of non-cooperation from some government leaders in the area especially on the utilisation of the constituency development funds. “For us this is a big challenge especially some regulations, which guide the utilization of these funds, it pains further when you notice that there are needs of the communities to be addressed, but funds stuck somewhere in an account,” he said. Commenting on the ongoing construction of the Health Centre at Longoi village, the DC said that upon its completion, it would save the residents from trekking long distance for health services they would be getting around. “People of Longoi and the neighbouring areas have been travelling about 23 kilometres to Hai District Hospital or to Mawenzi Regional Referral Hospital in Moshi Municipality in Kilimanjaro Region, just to seek referral treatment, which they would be getting in the Dispensary,” he pointed out. During his visit to Hai District, apart from talking to the district’s civil and Local Government servants, Mr. Waitara also inspected several development projects, which are being implemented in the area, including the ongoing construction of the Longoi Health Centre.