LEGAL technicality has saved two residents of Kahama District, Charles Karamji, alias Masangwa and Medard Maziku, alias Machunda, from being hanged to death for killing a young girl living with albinism, Esther Charles. This follows a decision given by the Court of Appeal, quashing all proceedings of the murder trial of the duo and setting aside the judgment cited against them by the High Court. Justices Shaban Lila, Jacobs Mwambegele and Barkeh Sahel ordered a retrial having noted insufficiency of summing up notes presented by the trial judge to assessors, as did not touch on essential ingredients of the offence of murder. They also noted that the trial judge failed to give directions on how the assessors should have considered facts relating to the application of vital points of law relevant to the case. “We invoke the provisions of section 4 (2) of the AJA to quash all the proceedings of the trial court from the stage the assessors were selected to assist the trial court, quash the judgment thereon and set aside the conviction and the sentence of death by hanging meted out to the second appellant,” they declared. The justices added: “We order that the file be remitted to the High Court for the appellants to be retried before another judge and a different set of assessors as soon as practicable. In the meanwhile, the appellants shall remain in custody to await their fresh trial on a date to be fixed.” In the case at hand, they said, the trial court convicted the appellants basing on the strength of retracted confession, identification in the horrifying situation, alibi, and malice aforethought and common intention. According to the Justices, such vital points of law featured well in the judgment of the trial High Court and the trial Judge was quite meticulous in their elaboration. “However, His Lordship did not sum up to assessors on any of the legal issues. Not even on elementary legal points such as malice aforethought, nor summing up to them on the burden of proof in criminal jurisprudence,” they observed. It was alleged in the particulars of the offence in the information that on October 19, 2008 at about 02:00 hours, at Shilela village in Kahama District, Shinyanga Region, the appellants with another person murdered Esther Charles, a child living with albinism Deep in the night of October 19, 2008, Jennifer John was fast asleep with her two children including a nine-year old child, Esther Charles, the deceased, when she heard her door being broken into by an uninvited guest(s). That person wielded a machete on one hand and a torch on the other. That person went straight to where the deceased slept and hacked her in the arm and shoulder. The deceased mother tried to protect the deceased to no avail. He grabbed her in turn. The duo struggled over the deceased and, ultimately, the mother was overpowered and that person threw the deceased in the living room, where she heard the deceased being hacked by other persons. In the meantime, the uninvited strangers took control of her in the room for some time. At a later stage, he, together with others left with the deceased. The mother raised an alarm for help. The deceased was nowhere to be seen. The first to respond to the raised alarm was a certain Mzee Waziri Ndubi, one of the neighbours. They searched the compound. The body of the deceased was found in the vicinity with her two legs amputated and missing. She was already dead. More alarm was raised and more people showed up. The appellants were arrested at different times.