THIS article was prepared in response to request of different readers of this column who sent to me mail and text messages asking for details about honey bee, the topic is very long and wide but we are going to cover some very important parts of life of these wonderful creatures of the savannah. Scientists describe honeybees are distinguished from others by their ability to produce and store honey. There seven species and fourty four sub species which dwell in different tropical and savannah areas of the world, fossils records indicate the first generation of these mysterious creatures evolved more than 34 million years ago when sea surface temperatures in the tropics was very high reaching about 35 °C. As a result the amount of ice sheet on the Earth’s surface started to dwindle as the amount of oxygen grew very fast, it was this period when wetlands and forest grew in numbers. Honey can simply be defined as a sugary food substance produced and stored by honey bee, scientists say it gets its sweetness from the monosaccharides fructose and glucose, and has about the same relative sweetness as granulated sugar. Scientists say the specie which dwells in honey producing regions such as Tabora, Iringa, Njombe and Ruvuma are hybrids of European stocks and different African sub species and it is believed that the African bees descended from an ancestral stock of cave nesting honey bee specie which split into two groups. At the same time history shows that from more than 500 years ago before the coming of Maasai people into Ngorongoro crater, the Datoga people had already started practicing Bung’eda. With its roots stretching more than 3000 years ago when their ancestors migrated to the area around mount Hanang from South Sudan, this is a special ritual used to look back on the life of an elder man after his death. It is a long process which involves both beatification and beautification of an elder after his death which takes about a year and goes along with prayers and minor rituals which are marked by preparation and drinking of Gasuda a popular traditional brew among Datoga. It is prepared by using unique herbs collected from Basuto plains where honey hunters walk from one baobab tree to another searching for a bee colony which they can harvest the main and precious ingredient of this drink. Among different African societies from south, central and north, there are different numbers of rituals which involve special singing of songs, dancing of traditional songs and offering of blood from animals, milk and food to ancestors is common in this continent and other parts of the world. Among Barabaig society Bung’eda is main ceremony which comes after a sequence of different rituals which are meant to beatification and beautification of an elder man after his death and this is organised by his family but controlled by the community. This is a long process which goes together with series of stages including a burial ceremony which is supervised by elder men of the society who control rules and regulation which guide and govern the Datoga community. According to traditional rules before a burial, the body of an elder man is wrapped in a skin of a bull which is killed by suffocation which takes his spirit to join his elders, this is because it must be strong, clean from diseases and capable of mounting cows. At the same time elders use this ceremony to measure how people adhere to their customs because Bung’eda starts with preparation and building of a burial site which stands in a conical shape with special place that allow the body to be preserved in a sitting position while facing the sun rise on the eastern side of the sacred land. This is very strong structure built according to principal and techniques with roots which goes back about 3000 years ago when ancestors of Datoga people migrated to Ngorongoro from South Sudan and Ethiopia. The mound is very strong which is capable to withstand effects from wind and rain while protecting the body from being attacked by scavengers like spotted hyenas at night when most of people are sleeping. The mound is built to be strong and able to stay stable until about a year when it is reopened at the peak of Bung’eda when the procedures of beatification and beautification of an elder man is done by his age mate. From many generations ago, Bung’eda ritual has been used to evaluate the life of one of its elder male member by his own community, although the ceremony is prepared by his family in order to get good result its supervised by the whole community through a special committee. This is done by elders of Datoga community to avoid influence from relatives of the dead man who are to influence the procedure and process of beatification for beautification of their brother, father or grandfather. Among Datoga community, this is done by committee of eight men with dignity who work under a supervision of an elder man in community who is known as Sidabeyoned. At the highest stage of this ceremony which may a year after the death, the tomb is reopened at the upper side, where elders look for fresh hair from the dead man’s head if the caucus had stored enough the hair would grow even at the time when corpse is inside the grave. When this happens, the dead man is declared holy as a sacred tree is planted on the grave site which attracts people to come and pray for assistance and protection from him, not all men qualify for this ceremony, among a community, Bung’eda is prepared for good people only. Meanwhile different researches indicate that one group migrated into Asia and the largest group moved to East Africa where they become very aggressive to produce large amount of honey than their cousins in Europe, fossils records indicate that during the last ice age about 2.6 million years ago. There was a climate changes which affected blossoming of flowers from different plants in different regions of the world including East Africa. Like other species, African bees lead social life in a colony which is made by a bee queen, which is a fertile female and assumes the responsibilities of laying eggs, drones or fertile males and worker bees or sterile females which tirelessly work for the rest members of a bee hive. Worker bees also use map during swarming and in their daily main activities which involve going out of the hive and fly randomly over a savannah forest from one flower to another. This is done with the help of their antennae which use Electrical cues to locate good flower with high quality nectar then to inform her fellow she will dance 70 to 100 times while drawing an eight figure in the air. While a smart passenger without knowledge in flight may ask for assistance from the ground to land a troubled aeroplane, from the beginning of their lives, it is very important for honeybees to learn how to use map because without it they may waste most of their time to get back to their original hive after going out to visit more than 2,000 different flowers to collect high quality nectar. Different researches indicate that honeybees use a combination of what they feel and see to adjust their body for a maximum energy efficient and speedy flight, these are smart insects which use their antennae as well as their eyes to calculate the best position for swift flight. Honeybees always travel to different distant located trees as source for a small amount of nectar, this is a difficult and tricky job so they must adjust their body for a long distant flight just like an aeroplane which is flying from Mbeya to Mwanza which need to be a fuel efficient machine. Morphologically honeybees are structured for long flight, their body are divided into three major parts which at different time play different role for a smooth flight from one point to another, during a long distant flight a honeybee will raise its abdomen to reduce drag and traction in the air and enable wings to pull the body forward easily for high speeds while using less energy. Honeybees use their eyes to watch for heavy clouds which may block them but their powerful antennae are used to sense and measure wind speed, this enable them to avoid pockets of air turbulences in the sky. At the same time, honeybees use their eyes to measure their airspeed, when they want to go faster in the sky they take few seconds to raise their abdomen which allow a smoother movement in the atmosphere. If swam of honeybees is moving from Nzega to Urambo district in Tabora and during the flight it encounter a powerful wind each individual is required to lower its abdomen to increase traction in the air and avoid being pushed out of their map, this means that honeybees rely on their vision to regulate their flights. Scientists say honeybees put both their eyes and antennae at work to detect and calculate the speed of airflow on their path in the sky, this means that their small brain workout different equations at one time. Honeybees have antennae which are used to taste food, they measure vibrations in the air when other bees dance, and they also use it to regulate their flights by detecting wind speed. This is because honeybees are equipped with a flexible brain which is capable to use information from several senses to control their flight more effectively as it helps them to respond more quickly to changes in a new environment in the sky. For example, honeybees use their antennae to detect a change in the airflow, this includes sudden changes on wind flow as a result this will allow them to adjust their bodies for low or high speed and this is something that other insects are not able to do because they depend mostly on their eyes. In Tanzania, from Kigosi, Ugala, Mhuhesi, Kizigo and Swagaswaga game reserves things are totally different because after a long flight honeybees apply special strategy which enables them to any challenge during landing. When landing on a horizontal surface, honeybees use something called optic flow to determine their speed, which allows them to measure how fast they are speeding toward an object and this is done very quickly the view pass over their eyes. Instead of an airport, honeybees land on vertical surfaces such as flower petals where they obtain pollen or nectar, these insects are good pilots because the closer they get to the target, the slower they fly. This is because honeybees slow down their flight speed at a more or less constant speed due to the fact that these insects have unparalleled ability to measure the rate of expansion of an image of a landing surface, this enables them to change their speed of approach for a smooth landing. Air pollution and deforestation in different parts of the world are forcing honeybees to go outside their traditional foraging zones in tropical forests in Africa, this also affects quantity and quality of honey collected from different woodlands in the world. rstanslaus@yahoo.com