WITH only one and a half months left to the prestigious Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon, organisers of the event have reminded participants that the early discounting period ends today January 14, 2020. A statement issued by the organizers said registration is going on online and through Tigopesa hence participants should continue registering before midnight today to enjoy the 20 per cent discount. According to the statement, participants can register through www.kilimanjaromarathon.com. In the statement, the local Race Director, John Bayo, advised that numbers will be limited again across all 3 races; 42km full marathon, 21km half marathon and 5km Fun Run to ensure the event sticks within the Official IAAF regulations of a safe carrying capacity. This according to Bayo will ensure runners enjoy their time out on route without being overcrowded and so that the organisers can ensure they get all logistics in terms of the hydration and medical support needed on route and at the finishing line with the numbers expected. For Tanzanian residents/permit holders and SADC members they will pay 35 US dollar for 42 km and 21km and while 5US dollar for 5km fun race. International runners will pay USD 70 US Dollar for 42km and 21km races while those seeking to compete in 5km fun races. According to the organisers, entries will close at midnight on February 16, 2020 or earlier, if capacity is reached. They also reminded runners to ensure they collect their race numbers in advance of the event, at one of the collection points that will again be hosted in the following towns: 22 and 23 February 2020 – Dar es Salaam, Mlimani City, 25 and 26 February 2020 – Arusha, Kibo Palace, 27 and 28 February 2020 – Moshi, Keys Hotel. “Proof of identity and confirmation of paid entries need to be brought to these points when collecting your race numbers,” read the statement in part. The Kilimanjaro Premium lager Brand Manager, Pamela Kikuli said the response is overwhelming and there are all indications that the event will be big as she called on Tanzanians to continue training hard in order to win most of the prizes. The Tigo Corporate Communications Manager, Woinde Shisael said most Tanzanians now understand how to register via Tigo Pesa and this has made the registration exercise easy as compared to previous years when there was a lot of paper work involved. Kilimanjaro Premium Lager is the main sponsor of the 42km full marathon and has held that position since the inception of the marathon 18 years ago. Other sponsors of the 2020 Kilimanjaro Marathon are TIGO, Grand Malt, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Limited, Simba Cement, Barclays Bank while the official suppliers are Kibo Palace Hotel, Keys Hotel, GardaWorld Security, Precision Air, CMC Automobiles. The race will be held on Sunday March 1, 2020 at the Moshi Cooperatives University and will play host to an IAAF route measured 42km Marathon, a 21km Half Marathon and a 5km Fun run.