SIMBA SC attacking midfielder, Francis Kahata has won the player of the month award for December 2019, following a string of impressive performances in the Mainland Premier League matches. The Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) through the Awards Committee has also picked Young Africans tactician, Charles Boniface Mkwasa, the coach of the month for December, 2019. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the duo won basing on their impressive run at their respective clubs during the month. To win the award, Kenyan midfielder saw off a challenge from team mate Hassan Dilunga and Coastal Union central defender Bakari Mwamnyeto, who were also nominated to vie for the award. Kahata featured in five matches for Simba during the month of December, helping his team to haul nine points after winning all three matches. They beat Lipuli 4-0, before beating KMC 2-0 and overpowered Ndanda with a 2-0 victory. Kahata made immense contribution as he scored two goals and provided one assist as Simba maintained their grip of the top spot on the log with 34 points from 13 matches. Yanga caretaker Coach Mkwasa won coach of the month award for December, outshining Simba’s Sven Vandenbroeck and Juma Mgunda of Coastal Union. Mkwasa led Yanga to two wins and a draw. They beat Tanzania Prisons and Biashara United 1-0 respectively and battled to a barren draw against Mbeya City. However, Simba under Sven won three matches during the month. The winner of player of the month award will receive a trophy and 1m/- cash prize from the league main sponsors Vodacom Tanzania and as well a decoder from the league co-sponsor Azam TV. For winning the award Mkwasa, will be awarded 1m/- by the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB). Mbao FC striker Waziri Junior won the best player of the Mainland Premier League for the month of November, while Azam FC Romanian tactician Aristica Cioba was named as the best coach of the month. October awards was dominated by Mtibwa Sugar after the best player and coach of the month went to the Morogoro based club, in which, attacking midfielder, Jafari Kibaya and his head coach, Zuberi Katwila won the awards respectively. And, that was after the defending champions Simba dominated the September awards with striker, Miraji Athumani and former Belgian tactician Patrick Aussems winning the awards respectively.