IT is the oldest derby day in Dar es Salaam today with equally the oldest clubs in the country, Simba and Young Africans locking horns at the sprawling National Stadium. Hundreds of thousands of football fans are expected to throng the stadium to watch teams which have, for years, arguably brought a lot of excitement and disappointment to winners and losers respectively battle for maximum points in the Mainland Premier League. Simba versus Yanga is the greatest match in the history of organised football in the country. Like Barcelona versus Real Madrid clash, this is also a battle that encompasses all the flair, daring, skill, enmity, sporting and social significance that can possibly be bottled into a 90-minute footballing fixture. It will be the 103th clash between the giants since 1965, when the league was officially introduced. Yanga have slight edge above Simba as they have won 36 times, while Simba have won 31 outings and 35 matches have ended in a draw. Yanga have scored a total of 107 goals compared to Simba’s 97. Runaway league leaders Simba, welcome a Yanga side, sitting ten points above their rivals, but with the Jangwani Street lads having played two games less. The match will kick off at 5.00pm EAT. Defending champions Simba maintained grip of the top position after collecting 34 points from 13 games. Their close competitors and traditional rivals Yanga settled in second position with 24 points from 11 outings. Victory is crucial for both sides today as it will paint a picture on which side is likely to win the title this season. The situation will certainly force both teams to fight tooth and nail to win the encounter; hence fierce fight is much anticipated. A win for the Msimbazi based team will see them reaching 37 points and continue to put themselves on a comfortable zone in race to defending the title for third consecutive season. For Yanga, they too need to win the match to go back to the second slot on the ladder, which is currently being occupied by Azam FC, following their 2-1 victory over Singida United in their latest league match at Namfua Stadium. On paper, the hosts are looking a side likely to cause all sorts of troubles for Yanga. And, upbeat Simba Head Coach Sven Vanderbroeck said his side is ready to face Yanga. Speaking yesterday at a mixed technical briefing here, Vanderbroeck insisted that he has high hopes of doing well in the match basing on the performance they have lately revealed in the league. “I know it is a big game with huge pressure both off and on the field but we are ready to play our part,” the Belgian said, adding that Miraj Athuman and Rashid Juma are the only players who are not fit for today’s clash, while the rest are in good shape. Moreover, Vanderbroeck, who is yet to succumb to defeat since taking over the coaching role from sacked fellow Belgian trainer Patrick Aussems said he will make a couple of changes in his starting lineup. His captain John Bocco said they respect Yanga, insisting that derby games are usually unpredictable. “For our part, preparations have been fully accomplished… we are just waiting for the kickoff. We will try to continue our good form in the league and that is possible because the atmosphere in the squad is great,” Bocco who played the entire match against Ndanda FC on Tuesday in Dar es Salaam said. On his part, Yanga caretaker Coach Charles Boniface Mkwasa reiterated his speech that playing Simba is normal just like any other team in the league. “The same energy we used to defeat Tanzania Prisons to end their unbeaten run will be used to get the better of our opponents tomorrow (today),” he said. Adding, Mkwasa revealed that they will miss defender Lamine Moro and striker Tariq Seif in today’s encounter as the former had three straight yellow cards, which disqualifies him for the match, while Seif was injured on his debut game against Biashara United on Monday. “We have a depth in the squad and others are always there to fill the vacuum,” said him. In his remarks, Yanga’s Vice-Captain Juma Abdul said they are well prepared for the game and morale is high in the team. “Yanga fans should come in big number to rally behind their team from the start to the end and for us, we will do our part,” he said. Last season, Simba took the bragging rights after managing a draw in the first meeting and winning the reverse fixture 1-0 courtesy of a goal scored by former striker Meddie Kagere.