OVER 600 teachers from public primary and secondary schools countrywide will this year receive training on Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) in different higher learning institutions as the government gears up to streamline digital technology from early education level. The selected teachers are expected to become ambassadors for spreading the same knowledge to their fellow teachers in schools. The Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF) is financing the training which will be run in higher learning institutions at the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), which also coordinates the training, the University of Dodoma (UDOM), and Mbeya University of Science and Technology (MIST). The institutions will take the teachers through the basic ICT devices maintenance and repair. The launching ceremony for the training, which will last for five days, was held in Dar es Salaam on Monday. Dar es Salaam Regional Administrative Secretary, Paul Makanza, who graced the launch, said the move is in line with President John Magufuli’s intention to improve the education sector. “The 2014 national education policy insists on having science and technology education that enables people to address challenges in their surroundings,” Mr Makanza explained. One of the major challenges facing public schools include insufficient textbooks, therefore the training is also expected to equip teachers with skills to create digital libraries and thus reduce complaints on shortage of textbooks. “The objective of the training is to strengthen capacity on maintaining ICT devices such as computers, printers and others that the government and other stakeholders have been distributing to schools,” stated Dr Kennedy Aliila, Head of India-Tanzania Centre of Excellence in ICT (ITCoEICT). ITCoEICT was established in 2009 as a result of bilateral relation and cooperation between Tanzania and the government of India. The agencies which operate the centre on behalf of Tanzania and India are DIT and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) respectively. “It was realised that it is important that ICT devices in schools should be well preserved, this is strategic training to teachers,” Dr Aliila insisted. He thanked UCSAF for its continued trust on DIT to coordinate the training which will build capacity among teachers to work in line with growth of science and technology. DIT Principal, Prof Preksedis Ndomba remarked: “We term this training as part of community services, because as a higher learning institution, we have such duty.” He assured that the ITCoEICT) was the ideal place to offer such training through practical method. “The world is heading to a total digital economy, and those without digital skills may lose their jobs,” Prof Ndomba cautioned. UCSAF has been financially supporting the training since it started three years ago, during which a total of 1656 teachers have been trained. UCSAF Chief Executive Officer, Justina Mashiba assured the government that the Fund will continue implementing the government’s goal to bring communication to all people countrywide. In the last ten years, only 45 per cent of Tanzanians were accessing communication, but currently 90 per cent of Tanzanians have access. In enabling ICT trainings in public schools, UCSAF has distributed ICT equipment to over 700 schools so far.