I HAVE had the fortune, in my capacity as a journalist, to attend, many seminars or clinics or workshops of all sorts. But when I was invited to cover what was referred to in my invitation card as an “exposition” at about this time of the year in 2019, I found myself both mystified and inquisitorial of the two things in the invite - more than looking forward to the attendant free lunch at the Hyatt Kilimanjaro Hotel in Dar es salaam as promised. A year later, on November 28th 2020, came a clear image of it. First it was the term “exposition”, which, if not mistaken, is some large-scale public exhibition or show, as of art or manufactured products, or the act of expounding, setting forth, or explaining. Or writing or speech primarily intended to convey information or to explain; a detailed statement or explanation; explanatory treatise: Secondly the event’s name, Sneakers and Heels. Surely they must have had run out of names, I recall asking myself. The organizers?  The Economic Society of Tanzania (EST). I mean, having somehow retired from active art and fashion industry beats, the invitation took me by surprise. But I was not disappointed. As it turned out, given it was organized by women and for women, this sneakers and heels thing had nothing to do with the arts nor had any semblance of fashion. Rather it was a mentoring forum designed to showcase work by women in male-dominated sectors and top management positions. At least that is what Dr Blandina Kilama, CEO and one of the founding members of EST, told me. “The Economic Society of Tanzania is a non-profit organization of economists and other professionals interested in economics as well as promoting economic research and economic policy advocacy, bringing together members of the economics profession in academia, research institutions, the government and private sector,” said Dr Kilama, a prominent economist with Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA). The towering, gentle and soft-spoken lady went on to say that EST’s primary objective to  the society is to raise public awareness and stimulate public interest and debate in economic issues. “It does this by organizing conferences, talks, workshops and public lectures and by conducting studies on issues, either on its own or in partnership with other organizations. “One of such meetings organized by the society is the Sneakers and Heels exposition organized annually,” she enlightens me. This time around the second edition of the series was held on 28th November, 2020 at the Hyatt Kilimanjaro hotel, two days shy of the first exposition date, namely on the 30th November 2019 at the same venue. But Dr Kilama stated that this year’s exposition firstly showcased work undertaken by women in sectors which are widely perceived as a predominantly male dominated. “It particularly focused at showing the work done by women in transport and logistics sub sector so as to demonstrate and encourage women on the possibilities of venturing into diverse kinds of businesses even the male dominated ones. “Secondly, the exposition also provided a platform for current female leaders of corporations, multi nationals and heads of diplomatic missions to share their experience, including both challenges and solutions,” she added. Dr Kilama cites that some current research indicates that quite a significant number of mid-career women tends to stop working after 3 to 5 years of work. To a large extent this is attributed to challenges facing many working women of balancing double roles namely the care economy at home and work. That the talk by female leaders today aims at sharing experiences and providing tips to mid-career women on how to overcome issues facing working women and thereby excel in their careers. She outlines specific objectives of this year’s exposition was the increasing awareness of women to participate in the transport and logistics sub sector; snowballing the understanding of challenges and opportunities faced by women in top leadership positions, as well as mentoring through exchange of experience and peer learning for mid-career women. Dr Blandina thanked various partners who worked with EST in the organization of the meeting, particularly the UN Women and Linden Academy for collaborating with them in the coordination of the forum. The society’s CEO also recorded the society’s appreciation to the various sponsors of the exposition, that included the Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF), Embassies of Ireland and Sweden, Serengeti Breweries, SSC Capital and Optical Centre. Not forgetting the organizing team composed of staff from REPOA, Kumi Media and EST Linden Academy.