AS boxing eagerly wait for the Night of Champions, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Innocent Bashungwa has urged the Tanzania Professional Boxing Regulatory Commission (TPBRC) to enhance its performance so to heighten the status of the sport. Bashungwa made these remarks yesterday when he visited the training camps of boxers Mfaume Mfaume and Abdallah Pazi ‘Dulla Mbabe’ who will fight tomorrow at the Next Door Arena, in Dar es Salaam. During his visit, Bashungwa called on investors to come forward to bankroll boxing bouts as the sport has grown into one of the country’s best-selling sports. “We want the sports sector to hit sky-high success, we do not want to go back down; and thus if sports associations or federations fail to effectively fulfill their responsibilities we will not hesitate to take action against them, including abolishing them,” the Minister warned. The Minister was accompanied with the Deputy Minister Abdallah Ulega who instructed Sports Development Department to formalize all gymnasiums (GYMs) and register them for identification. Adding he said, “there is a lot of talent we need to develop, as it is a job and a way to earn a living,” said Ulega. Boxer Abdallah Shaban Pazi (Dallah Mbabe) also thanked the government for recognizing boxing as a means of employment and creating a better environment, while promising victory. Boxer Mfaume Mfaume added that he plans to do well in the bout so as to bring honour to the country. On that big night homeboxers will lock horns against those from Malawi, Democratic Republic of Congo and Zimbabwe. The organizers of the Night of Champions have said the boxing bouts will bring together experienced and well-performing boxers in the country. Boxing fans will witness Twaha Kiduku who expects to fight against the Congolese Guy Tshimanga; Tony Rashid who will exchanges punches with Hassan Milanzi (Zimbabwe); Abdallah Pazzy (Dulla Mbabe) versus Simon Tcheta (Malawi); while Selemani Kidunda will exchange punches with Limbani Masamba (Malawi). The big day will be staged at Next Door Arena in Dar es Salaam. The organizers have further called on boxing fans to appear in big numbers and the tickets will be available at 20,000/- , 50,000 / - and 100,000.