ON Saturday, last week, I expressed my disappointment over the way Tanzanian karatekas had conducted their katas (shadow fighting forms) during the East African Karate Championships held in Dar es Salaam last week. I wrote that what I had personally witnessed on display in the name of karate was not karate but something else. Our karatekas need to pull up their socks if they really want to be recognised as karatekas. The many clips I had watched through a local television channel of the ITV in the name of katas left a lot to be desired. I noted the basic karate problems because I had in the long past also flirted with the sport under the tutelage of Sensei Duddly Mawalla who is an architect by profession and holds two black belts and two first Dan both in Shotokan Karate and Judo. To cut a long story short, our karatekas lacked basics in the martial art. Most Tanzanian karatekas performed what was supposed to be Shotokan. Unfortunately they broke all the rules that need to be adhered when practicing the martial art. When I wrote about basics problem our karatekas had in the tournament last Saturday, one of the problems I had touched on was on the way they lifted the heels of their back feet whenever they moved forward when they were performing their katas. If you are a Shotokan karateka, to do well in all your katas, it is important you adhere to all basics relating to the performance of all katas, starting with the first kata, Heian Shodan. This means that one’s Kibadachi stance should be such, a kibadachi stance and not something else. And when you move forward, while positioned in a kibadachi stance, you should not in any way rise up. You must remain in the same kibadachi position, even when the right foot moves forward. As the right foot moves forward in the course of performing Heian shodan, it should always be in line with the left knee and when you move it forward, it should be dragged forward. Don’t lift up the right foot! Your stomach and chest must be stuck out, again with your kibadachi stance, always well in place. That is basically what lacked in our Tanzanian karatekas during the East African Karate Championship held in Dar es Salaam. What was perhaps worse was that I noted the foregoing basic problems Shotokan karate not with beginners, meaning those who hold white and yellow belts, but rather with senior guys who have been flirting with the sports for over five years, and these were none other than holders of black belt! I have today more or less repeated what I had written last Saturday because in my Saturday sports column, I had forgotten to write about commentators, guys whose main duty was to inform the viewing listening and public (in radio and television) what was going on in the championship. I don’t know whether commentators knew anything about Shotokan karate. But one thing I noted, they were not different from the Tanzanian karatekas in that they could not differentiate between good and bad karate and this is a very big problem! In other countries, you cannot comment on any sport until and unless you are also well informed on the sport. And this is especially so, when the sport in question is being held competitively. And the reason why only well, informed commentators on the sport on show are allowed is aimed at avoiding an unnecessary conflict between the performers and the viewing public. The best example about this is demonstrated by soccer commentators, starting with seasoned guys in the industry like Peter Drury who is globally renowned for his work with the English Premier League. If you watched and listened to Peter Drury during his commentary of English Premier League matches, you will note that the man does not only know his beans, but he could have also easily worked as a referee for the English premier league if he wanted to on account of his massive knowledge of soccer and its 17 plus rules. The same thing can be said about our sports commentators. We should not allow commentators who are not well informed on the sport on show. Had our karate commentators during the East African Karate Championship been well versed in karate, they would have easily noted our karatekas’ problem in Shotokan karate basics. But because they were not well informed on the martial art, the black belters got away with blue murder. What this means is that they don’t have the right crop of instructors (Sensei); and the obvious question is, how did they attain the black belt they held if they cannot demonstrate basics in their performance of Heian shodan in Shotokan Karate? If our radio and television stations don’t have journalists who are also well versed in the game, then they need to recruit former or current practitioners in the sport just as the English premier league does through the use of the likes like former Arsenal striker, Ian Wright, former Liverpool and Manchester United striker, Michael Owen and former Chelsea player, Andy Townsend. The beauty of using commentators who are well knowledgeable in sports they are supposed to be commenting on is that they also teach, in the process, viewers and listeners (TV and radio) in following up and understanding the game they are watching. The more our radio and television stations have sports commentators who are very knowledgeable in sports, the more the listening and viewing public are likely to follow and understand more sports and the more likely such a public may influence their own children to take part in different sports as players. And a nation whose population is heavily involved in sports is a healthy nation; and a healthy nation is always better placed to engage in the country’s socioeconomic development.