A MWANZA-BASED firm, Magare Company Limited has hired six teachers for a public school;-Isagehe Secondary School of Kahama District, Shinyanga Region in a bid to support the government’s efforts in improving learning and teaching environment. Making the revelation in Mwanza on Wednesday, the firm’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Mabula Magangila said: “The teachers will be teaching Science and Commerce subjects, and already their names are in our company’s payroll, ready for work as from this coming January 2021. He said they also finished installation of a water system in the school, besides donating to them some stationery and equipment, which includes a computer, photocopy machine and printer. “We promised to support the institution not because I personally schooled here, but as a local electrical and mechanical engineering company that deals with engineering related activities in industries and mines operating around this community, we thought it wise to plough back part of our income through our company’s Corporate Social Responsibilities.” He further said the teachers will be paid by the company until the time the government takes them over. Adding he said: "The aim is to improve not only learning and teaching environments but also boost academic performance." The provided stationeries will among others be for examinations, because that is the area when plenty of papers and photocopies are needed. “Despite the fact that the government invests much effort and energy in the education sector, there is a need for the private stakeholders to also support the effort especially for full availability of necessary school infrastructures in all learning institutions.” On his part, the School’s Headmaster, Mr Adolf Kabyemela thanked the company for the support, promising to improve their academic excellence as a result of the assistance. “The presence of the teachers means a lot to us and the availability of stationery and equipment means compiling the examination and printing activities will be conducted within the school’s premises, and with no much costs. “We call up on other stakeholders to support the school, because we still face some challenges, including dilapidated infrastructure, which the government alone can’t manage,” he added. On behalf of his fellow student, one of the beneficiaries Nsia Jeta thanked the company for the support and promised to work hard. 