BancABC Tanzania has launched another enhanced security feature called 3D secure for e-commerce transactions and innovation of its cards. Speaking in Dar es Salaam at the weekend, BancABC Head of Retail and Commercial Banking Joyce Malai said the new 3D secure technology came with an added layer of protection that helped to prevent the unauthorised use of the bank’s customers’ Visa cards while shopping online. “With the 3D secure technology enhancement, our prepaid cards remain a game changer in payment services since customers will now continue enjoying more secure, simple and very fast payments through both online and POS machines,” she said. “During an online purchase using any of electronic devices such as your mobile phone, laptop and Ipads you will receive a onetime passcode through an SMS or an email that you are required to complete your transactions. This protects customer cards from being used by any unauthorised person.” BancABC Kubwa Lao Visa Card is also available in six different currencies namely Tanzanian shillings, United States Dollar, South African Rand, Chinese Yuan, Euro and Sterling Pound. To use this service, one need not be BancABC account holder, but the National Identification Card (NIDA) or any other government accepted identifications with supporting documents like a driving licence, a passport, voter ID. Ms Malai added that Kubwa Lao 3D Visa Card always assured customers of peace of mind, safety of funds and convenience to make free online and POS transactions. Customers will also get free instant SMS alerts whenever a transaction is performed and it’s very easy to reload through one’s mobile wallet or any BancABC Wakala. She added that apart from enabling holders to make online purchases over the internet, the card also allowed them to access their money anywhere at over 400 Visa-branded Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) in Tanzania, over 2.7 million Visa-branded ATM’s worldwide and one could do purchases from over 1,000 Visa merchants in Tanzania and over 46 million Visa merchant retail outlets worldwide. BancABC Senior Manager for Digital and Fintech Lameck Mushi said the facility had won three consecutive VISA awards in e-commerce transactions, a clear demonstration of how seamless, safe and reliable cashless services were. Mr Mushi further said the prepaid card was linked to a BancABC mobile phone, which means customers could deposit and withdraw funds at their convenience to and from all mobile wallets. “So, there is no need for a customer to visit our branches whenever they need to transact,” he said, adding that one could also check his or her balance, request a bank statement at any time, pay utility bills such as LUKU, water bills, government payments (GePG) and TV subscriptions. “Customers also get SMS notification whenever a transaction or anything happens on the card.”