IN a baby’s growth journey, there is time she/he should respond to whatever one parent/guardian initiates. For instance, when one makes any sound, a baby should twist the head, struggling to know where the sound originates. It reaches a stage when a person or an object passes around and lets the baby immediately rotate the head, looking at what is passing. There is also a time for the baby to sing, in a murmuring sound, with some body-parts, especially legs and hands get dancing/ shaking, said Dr Kiyeti Hauli of Bugando Hospital Mental Health Department, during the just- ended commemoration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Bugando marked the day December 3 through conducting health checkups to people with disabilities and providing instant treatments to the needy. Dr Hauli explained further that if the baby gets able to do all those things, including imitating whatever one does, then she/he is absolutely mentally fit. “If a baby completely fails doing all those things within the targeted timeframe according to how she/he grows up, then, will be experiencing severe mental complications, including autism-related problems, of which parents should immediately visit health experts for any possible immediate help,” she said, educating further that: When a baby appears to be delaying in doing something, he/she also experiences mental problems, at the stage that is called ‘intellectual disability’, which also needs immediate health service as the problem is curable. At this level of ‘intellectual disability’ also known as ‘mental retardation’ a child will be delaying almost in everything and all the time, reiterated the mental health experts, affirming that: “In the long run, this type of child becomes even a slow learner in the class, experiencing poorest academic performance at all. For every step this child will be far behind other (mentally fit) children. However, the situation is revisable, putting the child back into normalcy especially when parents detect the problems at a very early stage.” Again, a child who lacks the attention at all, also experience mental problems, according to Dr Hauli, citing an example that: “You prohibit a child from doing this, he turns to that, you prohibit from jumping on bed, he jumps on the cupboard….he also does the same when in others’ home, in few minutes after arriving in, and without fearing anybody…this is also a mental problem we call ‘attention deficit’.” Good luck is that ‘attention deficit’ is curable in a very short time, with the affected baby completely gets back to normal, affirmed the mental health experts. She insisted the parents/ guardians to invest much time in observing and monitoring a baby’ growth stages, to avoid or reduce mental health complications. Commenting on what might be causes for mental health problems to a newborn, Dr Hauli said that there lots of causes, including get injured on head, during birth processes. Sometimes, she added, it happens if a mother experienced some serious health conditions during pregnancy, which also affects the infant’s brain when still in the womb. Physiotherapy and occupational therapies are among the services to be provided for people suffering from severe mental complication, according to her, stressing that: “Even if we don’t guarantee full recovery for severe mental health complications, the patient gets relief to some extent, once attending the hospital clinics accordingly.” Roughly 100 people with disabilities showed up to commemorate their day at Bugando by testing their health status, with a larger number found suffering from bone problems, said the event Coordinator, Dr Juma Juma of the Prosthetics and Orthoses Department in the Hospital. The adults that were found with health problems had directly attended at the hospital, without referrals from other hospitals, as per Bugando procedures/ directives. Dr Juma clarified that usually, any person who visits Bugando for treatment without a referral is categorized as a private patient, who must pay for the services, adding that: “But these disabled are today celebrating their day. The hospital celebrates with them through offering free health testing and instant treatments, for the needy. Many have bone problems because physical disabilities have a close relationship with bone complexities.” The Hospital through its Social Welfare Department issued over 1,000 health insurance cards, for children with disabilities in need of treatments but unable to pay for medical bills. The Social Welfare Officer, Mr Daudi Makumucha explained that: “The cards are those under ‘Totoa’ type of insurance, a product of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), wherein a parent pays 50,400 per child, per year. The government pays more attention to children, hence, no need to miss health services simply because they belong to poor families, and experience disabilities.” He further clarified that ‘Totoa’ has been in place from sometime back, but the issued cards were for the Hospital to show its sympathy, care and love to children with disabilities on such a specific international event. According to him, from such specific commemorations, ‘Totoa’ services were made continuous, with the Department getting ready to search for more children with disabilities in poor families, and let the needy benefit from free health services. Asked on how easy it would be for the Department to identify and prove the needy, Mr Makumucha responded that:” We have been communicating with local government leaders to help, starting with families which have been benefiting from Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) poverty reduction projects.” Just being a TASAF member tells a lot about a certain family’s financial status, hence, easy identification of children with disabilities, he added. For families which have not been yet reached by TASAF projects, local leaders will continue to help to identify the targeted children, insisted Mr Makumucha.