DEVELOPMENT stakeholders in Mwanza region have complained over poor implementation of water projects and unnecessary delays, calling on relevant government organs, including the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau, to investigate them. They raised their voices this week during the Regional Road Board meeting, with Sengerema Member of Parliament, Mr Hamis Mwagawa mentioning Buyagu water project as among the schemes that failed to be completed in Sengerema for a couple of years. They said it was inconceivable for a water project to stall for years despite its budget being allocated. Giving explanation, Mr Mwagawa said despite Buyagu Water Project being allocated a total of 1.7b/- and whose implementation started in 2014, it has remained incomplete to-date. “There is also a-730- m/-Katunguru water project whose implementation kicked-off in 2019, but is still dragging. The same applied on a 1.35bn/- worth Nyampande water project that took-off in 2014. The government should cast its eye on this area,” he said. He said he spoke and advised the Controller and Auditor General to make investigations on the projects. Responding, the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) Regional Manager, Engineer Immaculata Raphael, commented that all the incomplete water projects were formally run by the Councils, but now the Agency is in place to clear all the doubts. “Remember, RUWASA started its operations last year. It is true that something went wrong in the past, but we gradually solved the challenges, with some service providers being suspended for investigations in some areas,” said Engineer Raphael. According to her, a 15.9bn/- budget has been set aside for the implementation of 45 water projects in the region for the current financial year. The amount, she added, is from the central government through its national Water Fund and (from) two donors, namely ‘Payment by Result (PbR) and Payment for Results (PfoR). The PbR is set to contribute for 12 projects, PbR 21 projects, and the central government 13 projects. “The government is to contribute 12.28bn/-, PbR 2.04bn/- as well as 1.58bn/- by PfoR. As of November this year, we have already received 3bn/- so far. Some projects will be implemented in collaboration with the Mwanza Water and Sanitation Authority. These are BugandoChabula (Magu), MhandeShirima (Kwimba), Igenge and Ngoma (Sengerema) water projects,” she said. She affirmed that some non-governmental organisations have emerged to support the government’s efforts towards availability of safe and clean water to all Tanzanians, with the Good Neighbour (organisation), promising construction of seven wells in Buchosa Council of Sengerema district.