PRESIDENT John Magufuli stressed on hard work, ethics and integrity as he sworn-in his new cabinet on Wednesday in the capital Dodoma. Dr Magufuli made the remarks after administering oaths to 21 ministers and 22 deputy ministers at Chamwino State House. On the day that Tanzanians celebrated 59th Independence Anniversary, President Magufuli directed every ministry to increase their performance for the interest of the nation. The Head of State highlighted a number of challenges facing each and every ministry and asked his appointees to go and address them efficiently, expressing high expectations of his cabinet-- a blend of experienced and young ministers and deputy ministers. The president encouraged boldness, telling the ministers not to shy away from making decisions for the benefit of the country and its people. Dr Magufuli apparently suggested that a wrong decision would be better than indecision as he discouraged a culture of indecisiveness and delays among his aides. He reminded the new cabinet to observe ethics and integrity, as well as refrain from divulging confidential information through the social media. The President was particularly dismayed by use of social media platforms, especially whatsApp groups, for government communications and sharing of sensitive information. “The government moves on papers,” he insisted, adding that technology should be used wisely and that all confidential information should be handed over in official manners. Directives to ministers Dr Magufuli specifically directed the Minister of State, President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Selemani Jafo to deal with all public officials who were swindling public funds, saying he was not satisfied with the minister’s performance in that specific area. He said that although Mr Jafo who has been retained in the docket was doing a tremendous job, still, there were unscrupulous officials in local government authorities who were misusing public funds. In the Energy Ministry, Dr Magufuli directed Dr Merdard Kalemani to make sure that the remaining 2,338 villages that were yet to get electricity are connected, and warned the minister against indecision. He also asked the minister to begin the implementation of the Njombe Hydro-power project, which upon completion will pump into the national grid about 350MW of electricity. In the Ministry of Minerals, Dr Magufuli said he was not satisfied by the way minerals were still being smuggled outside the country, asking Mr Doto Biteko to be bold in dealing with mineral smugglers. He also said that despite having a wall at the Mirerani’s Tanzanite Mining area, still people were entering the compound and walking out with gemstones. Dr Magufuli further directed the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba to ensure that peoples’ rights were protected as well as increasing pace in the dispensation of justice. He also directed the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Doroth Gwajima to ensure the country does not become a trial ground for medicines. In the ministry of Investment, the President asked Professor Kitila Mkumbo to ensure that all bottlenecks that were impeding investment in the country were removed. He said that all investors with money who were willing to invest in the country were being issued with all permits within 14 days. 