THE Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) is committed to partner with the AIDS Trust Fund (ATF) in its efforts to control the spread of HIV/AIDS, while providing self-prevention education. This was stated yesterday in Dar es Salaam by the TPSF Director of the Department of Community Services and Capacity Building, Mr Zachy Mbenna at a consultative meeting to discuss how best to enable AIDS Trust Fund to raise funds for implementation of HIV and AIDS interventions in the country. Mr Mbenna said it is the responsibility of the private sector to assist the government in its efforts to reduce dependency and combat the spread of various diseases within the community. He said TPSF is a key partner to the government and other stakeholders in the formulation and implementation of policies and strategies geared towards spurring economic growth, therefore, they will work closely with government agencies. “Our goal is to help the fund perform its functions without relying on donors. We will not only donate funds to access medicines for patients, but also provide education to reduce new infections,” said Mr Mbenna. He said it was better for the government to involve the private sector from the beginning, so that they could walk together under one umbrella rather than leave it to individuals or enterprises to help the community. However, he advised the government in terms of providing services to the community, not to involve an individual company but instead, to involve TPSF, which can easily engage its stakeholders and be able to contribute significantly to specific agreements. According to Executive Director of the Tanzania Banking Association (TBA), Tusekelege Joune, who is also a member of the TPSF Audit and Administration committee, participation in funding community services was not optional for private sector but a must. “This is a crucial agenda, and in any case, we would be at the forefront to support,” she said. However, she cautioned that in order for them to participate effectively, the funded projects must disclose their activities, income and expenditure as well. She said the private sector is happy to see that what they are contributing is benefitting their stakeholders.