FOR the insurance market to grow and increase operations in the country, there is urgent need for all stakeholders to work together towards prosperity of the industry. The remarks were made in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday by Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) Director for Planning, Research and Marketing Development, Mr Zakaria Muyengi during the 1st Insurance Sector end of year retreat. Mr Muyengi said the benefits of undertaking insurance are numerous, therefore all necessary measures should be put in place to ensure its success, so all stakeholders at all levels should intensify efforts in the provision of infrastructure required to support the growth of the industry. "Tanzania has just launched Financial Sector Development Master Plan 2020-2030 (FSMDP 2020-2030), aiming at guiding direction of the subsectors, and it has set several goals for the insurance subsector, whereby partnership and collaboration between the government and insurance companies are among the ways to achieve them," he noted. He further said that an insurance action plan has been prepared for easier implementation of FSMDP, and that it is crucial to adopt and give out views on better ways to implement the plan. The retreat organised by Africa College of Insurance and Social Protection (ACISP) was carried out under the theme 'Increase Insurance Penetration and Growth', with topics including technology, regulation, distribution and awards to recognise excellence in the insurance industry. FSMDPT outlined that the insurance subsector is expected to grow from the current penetration of 0.6 per cent to about 3 per cent of the GDP by the year 2030, while population coverage is expected to reach 50 per cent of the adult population from the current about 4 per cent. Expounding further, he said the insurance sector remains an important economic undertaking and a primary source of livelihood for many families in Tanzania. With comprehensive management of the industry, he said it will no doubt play a vital role in economic growth, therefore all stakeholders at all levels should intensify efforts in the provision of infrastructures required to support the growth of the industry. ACISP Chairman, Dr Baghayo Saqware said it was high time the industry positions itself to take the opportunity brought by FSMDP. Dr Saqware said 2020 has been a bumpy ride for humanity, in particular for the insurance business, but despite the challenges, the financial sector has positioned itself to start a decade of transformation.