YARA Tanzania has won accolades for launching a new product dubbed ‘MiCrop’ in Shinyanga Region to help maize and rice smallholders increase production. Launching the new product in Kahama recently and witnessed by the government officials, farmers, distributors and members of press, the Chairman of Kahama Co-operative Union (KACU), Mr Emmanuel Cherehani commended YARA Tanzania for coming up with new product designed to help farmers get more yields. “This new product has come at the right time and we request you (YARA Tanzania) to also consider producing similar product for cotton growers. I am very much convinced that maize and rice farmers will fully utilize the new product,” he said. Mr Cherehani, who is also the Chairman of Tobacco Cooperative Joint Enterprises (CJE), said KACU will continue to work closely with YARA Tanzania for benefits of its members and farmers in Shinyanga Region. “Let me take this opportunity to call on maize and rice farmers in Shinyanga and elsewhere to rush for MiCROP to double their crops production. YARA has come up with new product to better their lives,” he said. Earlier, Firm’s Commercial Manager, Mr Philipo Mwakipesile said the product meant a lot in helping smallholder farmers get more yields. Mr Mwakipesile said the new blended fertilizer which targets small scale farmers, contains zinc and sulphur micronutrients. It is blended by the firm locally to meet the growing demand of the product for farmers. “We are proud of MiCROP fertilizer since the product stands better in stimulating maize and rice yields. Small growers will benefit a lot for using MiCROP as their incomes will improve and double food production,” he said. According to Mr Mwakipesile, the fertilizer which is blended locally at the YARA plant in Dar es Salaam has won confidence of farmers since its official launching in the country. The firm has also launched the new product in Kigoma, Songwe, Iringa, Kilimanjaro and Shinyanga regions. “This is in line with the government’s initiative of promoting and building an industrial economy by 2025. We (YARA Tanzania) are behind the move as this time round we are producing it right here,” he said. He called on farmers to take advantage of MiCROP for better yields adding that it will be distributed countrywide to enable them benefit from the new product. During the event YARA Tanzania team handed over the fertilizer to their  distributors and showcased the sample of the product.