DECEMBER is the month of festivity. Charismas and New Year are just across the corner and I am sure your beloved family members must be busy in preparing the list of various items to be bought during the soon approaching festive season. I know kids remain upbeat during this period as they look forward to receiving lots of new things from their parents as well as gifts from the visiting Santa Clause. It is happy time for all and I have no reason to spoil it. My duty is to caution you so that at some stage your happiness should not get transformed into a sudden sadness. Human being is a social animal and as a result we come in contact with various people on day-in and day-out basis. Our usual day starts with encountering people who stay in our neighbourhood, and then we meet some other people in the bus/train while travelling to the office. When in office there are colleagues with whom we interact. Similarly our kids meet their friends in school and discuss many topics of their interest. As a result of our day-today interaction with many people around us, we tend to know what they respectively intend to buy during the forthcoming festive season. The story does not end here but it is just the beginning because we try to prepare our shopping list not based on what we actually desire or require but what others are intending to buy. We all know that income levels differ from one person to another and that being the case, how can the shopping list of two different people be the same? This is what the caution I was referring to a short while ago and this is what exactly the topic I want to address. So “beware of comparison shopping” and don’t fall prey to it. Although the word - ‘Comparison Shopping’ has a different meaning wherein a person compares the price of the same item at different places before he/she decides to buy, but this is not what I meant when I decided to write on comparison shopping. Here the word ‘Comparison Shopping’ is being referred to when somebody decides to purchase something not based on his/her needs but because somebody else had bought it. This is the case of human psychology because we start comparing what we want to buy with what somebody else has bought. Although often it is stated that mostly it is the women who suffer most from the syndrome of ‘comparison shopping’, however in my opinion this is spread across the society at a large. Let us come back to our lovely children. The moment they come across a new item at their friend’s house, they start pestering their parents to buy the same stuff for them. Here we can’t blame the children because they are quite unaware about the income level gaps which exist in our society. But the moment they approach us with such a request involving ‘comparison shopping’, it is our duty to educate them about the income level disparity and I am sure from thereon they would desist from such undue demands. We will be unfair to blame only the children for ‘comparison shopping’, because mostly it is the grown-ups like me and you who are equally to be blamed. Such kind of behaviours can easily be observed during various social gatherings. You must have attended numerous parties and the moment you arrive home, usually your wife would immediately make a demand to buy either a new dress or a costly ornament which she found somebody wearing in the party, which you just attended. Even you yourself are not immune to the menace of ‘comparison shopping’. The moment one of your office colleagues has bought a car, you immediately start planning to buy the same brand without understanding its repercussions on your monthly or yearly budget. I agree you must plan to buy a new thing in case you really need it provided you can afford to buy it. You should never plan to buy a particular item just because someone known to you has bought it. If you are not successful in controlling your impulse for ‘comparison shopping’, then I am sure the coming festive season will not bring happiness, but the unnecessary financial hardships with lots of miseries. You need to educate not only yourself but even your family members, who in their pursuit of comparison shopping will end-up destabilising your financial well-being completely. If you had already prepared your shopping list for the festive season, please review it once again to weed-out all those items which have entered into the list due to one or other reasons of comparison shopping. Those who have yet not made the list must equally ensure to put only those items which are needed by you and your family without any correlation to the comparison shopping of whatsoever nature. I know sometimes it is quite hard to control the syndrome of ‘comparison shopping’ but after all it is for your own good only. Let us hope you will be successful this time around.