FORMER Personal Assistant to the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Mzee Samwel Kasori has called on Tanzanians to support President Dr John Magufuli as he strives to transform the country. According to Mr Kasori, President Magufuli has displayed a high level of patriotism and demonstrated unwavering commitment in safeguarding the country’s resources fearlessly, for the benefits of the nation. Mzee Kasori said by supporting the reformist leader, Tanzanians would also be honouring Mwalimu Nyerere whose vision in protecting national resources is currently being cherished by Dr Magufuli. Mzee Kasori made the remarks over the weekend when he was invited to give his greetings at the 56th graduation ceremony of the College of African Wildlife Management Mweka (CAWMMweka). “I always get excited, more over I feel very much entertained when I listen to Dr Magufuli’s speeches; I am always moved positively by the statistics he provides whenever he makes speech es which are reliable because when you make a follow-up you see there is clear evidence of what he presents. It is good that Tanzanians understand him and support him in his responsibilities. “If you follow him closely you will see in him (Magufuli) exactly the ideas of Mwalimu Nyerere and the best example is Dr Magufuli’s commitment in protecting natural resources including the wildlife,” he said. Citing an example, Mzee Kasori said Mwalimu Nyerere didn’t entertain greed and that is why he went on to live on his pension that was only 10,350/- a month. “Mwalimu clearly knew his presidency was for Tanzanians; he could have accumulated wealth by using his position, he could even use his position to sell the all the country’s wildlife but he did not have that desire”, he said, adding, it is difficult to separate that idea with that of Magufuli. He hit out at individuals who don’t seem to appreciate the great work being done by Dr Magufuli, insisting that those individuals were indeed discouraging the president. Mr Kasori implored government institutions to support each other to realise President Magufuli’s dream. Giving an example, Mr Kasori said the Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) the National Youth Service (NYS) are both government institutions that must support each other in implementing government projects. Mzee Kasori advised the relevant authorities in the government through the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism to use the annual graduation ceremony of the CAWM-Mweka as a special way to pay tribute to Mwalimu Nyerere whom he said was in the forefront of wildlife conservation to the extent that he actively participated in the establishment of the college. “Let us look at Mweka College as a symbol of Mwalimu Nyerere’s efforts in valuing the conservation of wildlife and natural resources of the nation as a whole,” he said. In addition, he suggested, in commemorating the good work of protecting wildlife and natural resources that President Magufuli was doing, conservation education should be introduced at the grassroots. “With great humility, I humbly recommend that the subject of conservation should be included in the primary school education curricula so that Tanzanians in the coming years could learn about conservation of wildlife and the natural resources early enough to become patriotic when managing the country’s wildlife and natural resources”, he added. Mzee Kasori appealed to the 388 graduants of the 2020 CAWM-Mweka graduation ceremony to be confident in protecting the wildlife and national resources of the nation due to the fact that the education they got at the college was a great guarantee given to them by Tanzanians in fulfilling the important responsibility of protecting the wildlife and the natural resources