HE was just 28 years old when his wife died while giving birth. The mother of five had neither experienced any complications during her pregnancy. Her husband and her physician said it had all been well until the sadden turn on August 10, 2017. The 32-year-old Ndayizamba Elly isn’t the first man to lose a wife during postnatal, neither is he the last. Elly and his family had fled their mother country Burundi to Tanzania due to the political crisis of 2015. His happy family suddenly lost the home and country. He wasn’t prepared to lose his loved one. Elly is among the thousands of other Burundian refugees living in Nduta Refugee Camp in the northwestern town of Kibondo in Kigoma Region. He says the departure of his wife was painful not only to him, but also to his children. “They would ask me a question about the whereabouts of their mother and I had no answers,” he says. “It got to a point I had to tell them ‘she is in heaven’, but still they would ask ‘when will she come back?’” This was the first time in his life to face such a circumstance. His parents-in-law were also on his neck not buying a medical report that their daughter, undeniably, died when giving birth. They wanted their daughter and they would call any time, demanding to talk or see her. Most of the time they gave threats and blamed Elly for being reckless. They considered him a ritualist. For almost a year, his life, like that of many refugees, had been marked by isolation and rootlessness. He couldn’t eat, sleep or have a friend to talk to. Depression and anxiety became a frequent part of his life. He was frustrated and felt unwanted in the community. It is the experience hundreds of refugees go through in addition to trying to adjust to a new culture, separated from their families, social networks and emotional support. Public attitude towards people with mental illness has extensive consequences ranging from effects on the quality of life to a level that hinders the effectiveness of many public health programmes. An independent and international medical humanitarian organisation, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), which is involved in delivering emergency aid to people affected by armed conflict, epidemics, natural disasters and exclusion from healthcare, reported for 12 months since November 2019 an average of 1,068 consultations monthly for various mental health conditions at Nduta Camp. At the same period, 2,654 patients were consulted, 90 per cent being Burundian refugees and at least 10 per cent Tanzanians. The rate of female patients stood at 77 per cent and 23 per cent male patients. The main mental health disorders range from anxiety, depression and psychosomatic and psychosis disorders. While men are limited by negative cultural perceptions such as not allowed to cry, to show their emotions, or share their pain, women, on the other hand, are often caretakers, they undertake more responsibilities in community like parenting, fetching water and firewood and are often subjected to gender- based violence and sexual violence that put them at high risk of getting emotional difficulties. Clinical psychologist and mental health activity manager Nduta Refugee Camp Petro Jengela says untreated clinical depression can cost everyone. In Tanzania and across East and Southern African cultures, the widespread stigma associated with mental problems prevents many people from seeking help. Ms Grace Mhagama, a mental health nurse claims “stereotypes embedded in our society are that the victims of mental problems are either bewitched or possessed by demons. Hence, people would respond by taking victims to a traditional healer, church or a prayer centre for treatment.” Dr Evance Chande, Bishop of EAGT Church in Dodoma acknowledges that stigma is deeply rooted in the general public and a person with mental illness, his or her condition is seen not only as a problem, but also a shame to the entire family. Persons with mental illness are usually associated with evil. The victims are seen as posing health and security risks since their interpretation of things and information is quite different from that of normal human beings. But here, these people are codenamed “machizi/vichaa (Kiswahili)” or “musazi (Kirundi)” meaning “crazy.” A clinical psychologist explains that mental illness is a health condition in which an individual’s memory to recall, process information, cognition, mood, behaviour or act is disturbed. Such disorders can be generic or may result from social events that one faces in a lifetime. Studies have found strong imbalances or disruptions to a neurotransmitter can result in depression, anxiety, anger, lack of motivation, panic attacks, stress, inability to calm down, burnout, intolerance to exercise and memory problems. “Most people with difficulties to manage their emotions would end up using substance abuse such as alcohol or drugs, which impacts negatively on society. It further deteriorates their mental health and builds up other psychological problems, notably, sexual abuse, child abuse and domestic violence,” Jengela says. Figures for people with mental disorders in the country are scanty. It is estimated that seven in 100 schoolchildren meet the criteria for clinical depression, according to official figures from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children. Reports from Muhimbili National Hospital Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health indicates that patients seeking mental healthcare increased by 23 per cent in 2019/20 compared to the previous year. Dr Fileuka Ngakongwa, a mental health specialist, told reporters that 980 patients with mental disorders attended Mlonganzila Hospital last year. This is an increase from only 230 patients who attended in 2018/19. At Upanga Hospital, the number increased to 32,307 from 21,183 patients during the period under review, she says. Mirembe National Mental Hospital reported 216,321 patients reached out last year for mental health service. Despite this massive increase in people seeking medical help, the government admitted that the country faces an acute shortage of psychiatrists. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Prof Mabula Mchembe, says there are only 32 trained psychiatrists across the country. He said the government was working with development partners and other stakeholders to improve health services and is considering widening intake to tertiary institutions to train more mental health specialists, psychologists and related staff. The official said persons with mental health illness were not taken to hospital due to lack of mental health insurance cover. The National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) says, however, that it has adopted a package to help mental health patients get medical care and treatment. The PS admitted that the health insurance cover is still limited “although there is some progress.” Nonprofit organisations such as MSF are increasingly intensifying programmes to help reach a wider population, that otherwise could wait for a long time to get help. An estimate of 20,000 Tanzanians from over 100 villages around Kibondo and beyond have been treated free of charge in quality primary and secondary healthcare, including mental health, sickle cell diseases or emergency support at MSF health facility. ‘Daily News’ could not independently verify how refugee status could also affect mental health, but experts point at psychosocial problems associated with improper access to shelter, nutrition, healthcare and education as key challenges to blame for mental health illness. Generally, mental health illness at the camp and at household level is aggravated by events such as frequent gender-based violence, rape, sexual harassment, threats, relationship problems, economic hardship and loss of the loved ones. Facing the battle In an event such as the coronavirus pandemic, a patient with severe mental illness is at high risk of being infected since their interpretation of public health advisories is limited. MSF psychiatric clinician Erick Revocatus acknowledges that it was very difficult to tell some patients to follow health advisories, such as to maintain social distancing, avoid handshaking, washing hands all the time. The clinician claims that some of the victims thought are stigmatised because of being mentally ill. “That is why we urge the public to support and not stigmatise or discriminate against those undergoing or showing symptoms of mental health disorders,” Public health official in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Dr Thomas Shauri, said. According to Dr Ngakongwa, Dr Shauri and Jengela any person can have mental health disorders. Existence of other factors that include limited ability to overcome challenges, surrounding environment (community), ongoing medical conditions such as diabetes, blood pressure, HIV/Aids as well as nutritional deficiency among children can trigger the risk of developing mental illness. Feeling easy, survival and advocacy Elly who could not sleep or feel appetite for any food is slowly returning to normality. He says after appropriate medication and regular check-up with a specialist he has been able to sleep and is taking care of his family, including the fifth child who only survived post-delivery. He is now working with other survivors in creating public awareness in the community of refugees. He says he remains indebted to a team of psychologists and the specialist who supported and encouraged him never to lose hope. “I am voicing my testimony about the anguish and tormenting experience I faced as a refugee and a mental health patient. I have been free with everyone and I hope through my voice more persons with a similar or different mental condition can come out or be taken to hospital for medical help,” he says. Clinical psychologists suggest that the most necessary measure to take in society is to know about mental health and creating an understanding that mental disorder is just like any other diseases. “By shaping society’s mindsets through public education, it would ultimately aid society to act by supporting people suffering or showing symptoms of mental problems,” adds Ms Mhagama, a mental health nurse. It is believed that awareness could help eliminate stigma related to mental health and enhance support, including seeking medical help.