CIVIL society organisations and workers in the country have appealed to the government to ratify the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention on violence and harassment in the workplace. Speaking at a dialogue to end gender-based violence (GBV) in the workplace organised by Women in Law and Development Africa (WiLDAF), which involves workers’ trade unions and different civil society organisations, they said there was a need for Tanzania to join forces to end GBV. The 190 Convention has been signed by over 170 member states and some of them have started ratifying it. Ms Devota Tweve from Young Alive Initiative said the ratification of the convention would help address harassment that women faced in their daily lives. “This convention is very important because every person has a right to work without discrimination and any kind of harassment. For years, women have been victims of this situation in the workplace and we must raise voices to end GBV,” she said. Moreover, Ms Tweve said if a person experienced any kind of harassment in the workplace that experience limit their service delivery. “Harassment shouldn’t be tolerated as it subjects victims to mental distress and to quitting employment. That is why we see the importance of ratifying this convention to enable employees, especially women to be free from harassment,” she said. Ms Edina Rwezaura from Tanzania Mines, Energy, Construction and Allied Workers Union (Tamico) said ratification of the convention would enable workers to be confident in their workplace because employers won’t harass them because they would be obliged to comply with the convention. She said most workers, especially women would be aware of the convention and so they won’t tolerate harassment. “There are some people who are favoured in the workplace because of sexual corruption. So, if this convention is ratified employers will give equal opportunities to all workers,” she stressed. She said ratification would also help create good labour relations among all workers because of the neutral ground when it came to different opportunities that would be available in the workplace. Mr Johnbest Mwahaja from Youth Think Tank said it was important to sensitise on the convention so that they could be aware of their rights and raise their voices if it happened that they were violated. He said it was also important for activists to raise their voices through different social media to ensure the government started the process of ratifying the convention. “We must use different methods, including brochures and social media so that the government could hear the voices of workers all over the country to help end sexual harassment in workplace.”