PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has expressed his satisfaction with the ongoing construction work of the Kigogo-Busisi Bridge in Lake Victoria and a mega ship-MV Mwanza Hapa Kazi Tu- which is aimed at enhancing movement of people and goods in the Lake Zone. The Premier yesterday inspected the construction work of the 3.2 kilometers bridge which is being implemented at a cost of 699bn/- and MV Mwanza ship which is expected to cost 89.764bn/-upon completion during his official tour of Mwanza region. He called upon government officials to ensure that the projects are completed as scheduled. “The fifth phase government is determined to improve transportation network since it is key to the country’s development,” he said. Speaking on the benefits that Kigongo- Busisi Bridge project has brought to regional residents, the PM said a total of 370 Tanzanians have secured employment from the project. He called upon Mwanza residents to protect the infrastructure and contractors to ensure that nearby residents benefit from the project through employment. The construction of the bridge which will connect Usagara - Sengerema road upon completion will be the longest in East Africa and the sixth longest in Africa. Mr Majaliwa noted that the Bridge has been named after President John Magufuli in honour of his efforts in promoting the country’s development. The construction of the 3.2-kilometre bridge by China Civil Engineering Construction Group (CCECG) and China Railway 15th Bureau commenced on February 2020 and is expected to be completed in February 2024. Mr Majaliwa further added that the projects were being implemented using taxpayers’ money, noting that the work was continuation of construction of transportation infrastructure in the country. “The implementation of these projects will facilitate economic activities ... citizens should continue to have trust in their government,” he said. He said the stage reached in executing the projects was commendable, noting that upon completion, it will enhance movement of people and goods. The construction of the state-of-the art ship ‘MV Mwanza-HapaKaziTu’ is being implemented by two foreign firms, Gas-Entec and Kangnam, both from South Korea together with Suma JKT. The ship whose construction is expected to be completed in December next year will have the capacity to carry 1,200 passengers, 400 tonnes of cargo, 20 small vehicles and three trucks. Apart from passengers and cargo, the vessel under construction will also be hired for tourism purposes and other social ceremonies. The vessel, which will be the largest in the Great Lakes region, measures 92.6 metres in length, 17 metres width and 11.2 metres height. It will operate on Lake Victoria upon completion, replacing MV Bukoba which was involved in a tragic accident in 1996. Commenting on the projects, Members of Parliament from Mwanza region expressed their gratitude to President John Magufuli because the projects will enhance development in their areas. Misungwi MP, Alexander Mnyeti said the construction of JPM Bridge was an indication of the government commitment to serve the people in the Lake Zone. Laying a foundation stone for the state-of- the- art bridge in December last year, President John Magufuli said that the bridge was expected to replace ferry services between Kigongo and Busisi, cutting down travelling time across the channel from approximately three hours to four minutes, and allowing an increase in the number of vehicles crossing daily from 1,600 to 10,200. President Magufuli highlighted the huge positive impact the bridge will have on the nation’s economy, saying it will enhance movement of people and goods and curb marine accidents while promoting trade and other economic activities in the lake zone and beyond.