TANZANIA Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) on Friday presented its proposed fourth Strategic Plan for 2021/2022-2025/2026 and the Client Service Charter to stakeholders. The aim was to provide a strategic direction of the aviation industry. The plan focuses on enhancing the industry’s contribution to socioeconomic development of the country through safe and security of aviation activities. Opening a consultative meeting, TCAA Director-General Hamza Johari said as the country gained momentum in its quest to attain industrialisation, subsequently in achieving its Vision in 2025 the Strategic Plan had been prepared to provide fresh impetus to safety and security in the aviation industry. He said the plan outlined activities expected to be done during the plan’s period of time which made TCAA respond more effectively to industry demand. Mr Johari said to improve the level of compliance with international requirements and corrective action plan they would be committed to implementing international standards, monitoring and improving security systems to meet International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) requirements. He said the acquisition of modern technologies had been included in the plan as well as staff development initiatives and investment priorities for the modernisation of equipment for air navigation services outlined in the strategic plan also were in line with ICAO requirements. Investments will also be undertaken to support the development of airports under the Tanzania Airports Authority (TCAA) to facilitate efficient aircraft movements. Mr Johari said the process of transforming the Civil Aviation Training Centre (CATC) would be continued to ensure all regulatory approvals were acquired and the capacity of the school was improved to enable it deliver and accommodate professional and quality market oriented courses. “In that academic building we will put many attractions such as a nice hostel, a swimming pool and various games. We want people to relax after work so that when they return to work they will have new energy and enthusiasm,” said Mr Johari. He noted that the plan provide a framework within which TAA would implement its projected activities to achieve growth and sustainability over the next five years. The main focus during the plan period will be to strengthen TAA’s existing organizational capacity to improve the provision of regulatory oversight, air navigation services and aviation training services at CATC. Mr Johari said TCAA would achieve the goals by investing in its human capital, modern technologies, restructuring, promoting stakeholders’ involvement and participation, promotion of its core values and ethics. He said TCAA would ensure safety, security and regularity of civil aviation in Tanzania through effective oversight, provision of efficient air navigation services and training to develop a dynamic and sustainable air transport system that corresponded to the needs of the country and would facilitate the implementation of the National Development Vision 2025. Moreover, he said oversight on air transport would focus on improving efficiency, competition and ensuring air operators complied with regulations. “TCAA will improve its capacity to provide field surveillance and air transport information and air operators will respect the rights of aviation consumers.” 