THE domestic dog is the man’s best friend. This is a common phrase used by many people to describe its long history of close relations, loyalty and companionship with humans. Meanwhile whether it is a feral or domestic, the dog is considered as a distinct specie related with the wolf from the canidae family, although modern wolves are not closely related to the wolves that were first domesticated. This implies that the direct ancestor of the dog is extinct but history show that the dog was the first species to be domesticated by humans. The archaeological record shows the first undisputed domestication of dogs by humans started 36,000 years ago but the relation was strengthened 17,000 years ago. During this period, all humans lived as hunters and gatherers, and were generally nomadic and It is estimated that 30 per cent of the Earth’s surface was covered by ice, including glaciers of Ruwenzori Range in east and central Africa Mount Kenya and Mount Kilimanjaro. It was during that time when human evolution reached a dramatic change in eastern Africa where as some would remain in the trees, others moved out of the trees and started to learn to walk upright. Develop enlarged brains, and learn to avoid predators while becoming predators themselves in the more open country, as the activities increased the first hunters accepted assistance from the dog who was seeking security, after coming under pressure from larger predators and rom that point the dog became the first animal to be domesticated by humans. The process of domesticating the dog was somehow easier because the animal came from the order of carnivores who are less afraid when approached by humans, but the dog size and behaviour played a significant role in the adaptation process which resulted into domestication. History shows that other domestic species were primarily selected for production related qualities while dogs were initially selected for their behaviours, because dogs generally show reduced fear and aggression compared to wolves. In an exceptional way dogs have independently evolved to be cognitively more similar to humans than we are to our closest genetic related mammals such as chimpanzees and bonobos, dogs have evolved specialised skills for reading human social and communicative behaviour. History shows that between 36,000 and 17,000 years ago the weather of the world changed and the surface of the earth was dominated by cold and dry to warmer, wetter conditions, which resulted into a rapid shift of flora and fauna, with much of the open habitat of large herbivores being replaced by forests. The changes affected hunting activities of both humans and dogs, about 11,700 years ago human developed an arrow head technology that attracted the use of hunting dogs who were used by hunters to track and retrieve wounded game in thick forests where the dog’s ability to chase, track, sniff out and hold prey increased the success of hunters in forests, where human senses and location skills are not as sharp as in more open habitats. Meanwhile domestic dogs have been selectively bred for millennia for various behaviours, sensory capabilities, and physical attributes which enable them to perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and military, companionship and, more recently, aiding handicapped individuals. Nevertheless, dogs are predators and scavengers, and like many other predatory mammals, the dog has powerful muscles, fused wrist bones, a cardiovascular system that supports both sprinting and endurance, and teeth for catching and tearing. Dogs have powerful senses including vision, hearing, sense of smell, sense of taste, touch and sensitivity to the earth’s magnetic field but some studies suggested that dogs can see the earth’s magnetic field, which some people believe it is the kind of sense which enables dogs to see ghosts and witch people at night after using between 150 and 780 hertz to howl and terrify believers within a neighborhood. On their side, scientists say dogs use these unique sounds which consists of about 12 harmonically related overtones to communicate with others when their olfactory smelled something delicious from unknown location and an individual needs assistance from its friends. This week we have heard that an old woman was killed by a pack of domestic dogs after unleashing a strategic attack which caused chaos in a neighborhood in Songea, at the same time through different media reports from Rukwa, Katavi, Iringa, Mtwara and other regions fear is growing because of the presence of well organised pack of feral dogs in their area. If you happen to be around Kijitonyama area just behind the Millennium Tower Building, you will see more 15 stray dogs enjoying their time in an open ground located on your way to National Internet Data Centre and this indicates the rise of a number of domestic dogs who have decided to go back into the wild. These packs are made by dogs which come together from three sources, free ranging dogs owned by humans but not confined to a yard or house as they live by eating food from different sources in a village but due to different factors including persecution by humans, these dogs change habitat and shift into isolated areas. The second group is free ranging unowned dogs that may have been abandoned by their owner or have their origin from free ranging parents and get shelter from abandoned houses in streets and village while collecting their food from human environments. The third group is made by wild dogs who have never pass through any process of domestication. On the other side zoologists say the distinction between feral, stray, and free ranging dogs is sometimes a matter of degree, and a dog may shift its status throughout its life, a dog can become a stray when it escapes human control, by abandonment or being born to a stray mother. A stray dog can become feral when it is forced out of the human environment or when it is socially accepted by a nearby feral group. Scientists call these dogs feral dogs because after staying with humans in one stage of their lives they have decided to go back to the wild, feral dogs live in a wild state with no food and shelter intentionally provided by humans and show a continuous and strong avoidance of direct human contact. At this stage of avoiding humans, the dogs form a social group whereby members hunt and sleep together, scientists say dogs are known to be a highly adaptive and intelligent species, by going back to the wild they are forced to scavenge and hunting in an episode which has four stages. The pack travel in search of prey through their power of scent, chance encounter, and tracking, it must be understood that dogs have powerful smelling ability which is capable of locating their prey by scent, and this is done by the help of wind which carries scent from the prey which may be located very far. As the gap between the dogs and their prey closes, the pack quicken their pace, wag their tails, and peer intently, getting as close to their quarry as possible without making it flee. Once the prey detects the dogs, it can either approach them, stand its ground, or flee. At this stage the dogs will hold back, as they require the stimulus of a running animal to proceed with an attack but if the targeted animal stands its ground, the wolves either ignore it, or try to intimidate it into running. But situation will change when the prey attempts to flee because dogs immediately pursue it, this is the most critical stage of the hunt because the pack will demonstrate hunting tactics of canidae family whereby the prey is separated from the group before being attacked and killed. That episode may be told by eyewitness of what happened to the poor woman who was killed by feral dogs but the act of killing its best friend may be taken as process of adapting skills of living in a new environment in the forest and away from human who from their side is now regarded as an enemy because of competition for hunting grounds. In this situation some notorious and courageous pack are listing people in their menu, and this means humans are preyed by these hungry dogs. This may be born out of negative experience with humans and retaliation is directed to women and children under 18 years because members of canidae family are always afraid of people. rstanslaus@yahoo.com