THE government has warned against illegal fishing practices, citing stern legal measures to those who will be caught. Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Ms Pauline Gekul issued the warning when she met some fishermen during her tour in Manyara Region on Monday. Without going into details, Ms Gekul said the previous anti-illegal fishing activities forced the government to spend about 1.2bn/- in crackdown, something that should not be repeated. However, she urged them to give the government maximum cooperation in bringing to an end the malpractice. “The illegal acts are not acceptable; we need to come up with a solution for the problem…as key persons, you need to collaborate with the government to end illegal fishing in your midst,” she pointed out. According to her, managing and ending the malpractice will help to increase fish stocks in the county’s water bodies. She, however, called upon the fishers to do away with illegal fishing nets in particular and instead show support to the government. Besides addressing the illegal fishing, she highlighted the government’s other priorities as strengthening fish farming in ponds, noting that if well managed it will increase jobs, eradicate poverty and in turn boost the economy. The Deputy Minister equally urged District Executive Directors (DEDs) among other leaders to see the possibility of using part of the 10 per cent funds given to women, youth and people living with disabilities to carry out a search for the startup of fish farming business instead of giving them cash money. In another development, Ms Gekul directed the DEDs and fisheries officers to reach out to all fishermen and make sure they pay for their fishing licenses as a revenue to the government. “This should be implemented immediately; everyone should feel good about meeting their financial obligations… pay taxes and acquire your receipts on time… for the government to obtain its revenues,” she said. Babati District Commissioner (DC), Mr Lazaro Twange acknowledged receipt to all the directives and pledged to work on them, saying: “We are going to reach out to all fishermen and make sure all their problems are solved and the government acquires its revenues,” asserted Mr Twange.