I ALWAYS try my level best to be very close to my creator, the big man above, that is why I like the old African saying, ‘Msema kweli ni mpenzi wa Mungu’. However, what I came to realize, the hard way, is that as Africans, we have a serious problem when it comes to the truth, yaani huwa hatupendi ukweli kabsaaa! But since I vowed to the good Lord that I will always say the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, I will therefore continue to tell the truth, wasiopenda kwa kweli watajua wenyewe. I always say that a decorated monkey is a monkey still, and when I say this, don’t for a minute start thinking of going to the streets and start demonstrating because of that example, kwa taarifa yako, sisi sote ni waafrika, but let us face our problems, ukikasirika hama mji. My teacher (May the Lord rest his funny soul in eternal peace) always told me that for a monkey, it doesn’t matter what you do to it, it will remain a monkey, period. He said you can clean it thoroughly, apply lipstick to its lips, spray it with very expensive perfume and dress it in a very trendy outfit, but the minute you let it go, it will jump on the nearest tree, yaani huo ndio ukweli nawaambia! The problem is, every time I use this example, some misinformed people always come out in great force, threatening and using foul language, simply because they don’t want to face the stark truth, nasema hivi….hamnitishi! When I say that most Africans are a confused lot, people tend to misunderstand me, simply because they choose to misunderstand me, not because they don’t understand me, but because they choose not to understand me. With growing up comes responsibilities, that is why a child is fed when it is born, but after sometime he can feed himself, because he knows that it is his responsibility, mtoto anakua, kama hakui basi kuna tatizo, that is the way nature goes. You see, in life, every individual has his or her basic rights, and these rights include good health, education and a good and healthy environment to live in, which includes a safe place to call home, natumai mnanielewa hadi hapo. On the other hand, the government has its responsibilities towards its people too, and by all means they are supposed to carry them without any excuse, kwa sababu katiba ya nchi ndivyo inavyosema. For Africa, Tanzania included, it is not a new phenomenon to record cases of cholera outbreaks nearly every year, where people end up losing their lives before it could be put under control, ishatokea mara kibao! I don’t really believe that someone has to be a rocket scientist to know the real cause behind cholera outbreaks, and if there is someone who is still not aware of the reason, then I should direct you to your nearest house of prayer for special prayers, kwa sababu unahitaji msaada. Everywhere I go, I usually try to tell people that cleanliness is next to Godliness, but believe me, sometimes I feel like I am just playing the piano to a raccoon, watu hawaelewi! Kusema ukweli there are some people we live with who are dirty, yaani ni wachafu hasa! For those of you who live in uswahilini like yours truly, then I know you have encountered such people, ni wachafu hatari! My friend, when I talk about dirty people, siongei kuhusu tabia, I mean the word in the real sense of it, they are so dirty you wonder why they live with humans, wapo wengi tu, and I know you know a few. Right now the government is doing its best to improve the infrastructure of the country, that is why contractors are busy constructing roads, and with every road construction, they include gutters to pass drainage and rain water, nazungumzia mitaro na mifereji. But in most parts of uswahilini, the residents are like the proverbial monkeys, yaani hawataki kuona kitu kizuri, and because some of them are trying to use ignorance as much as possible, they try to convince us that they don’t know the use of these gutters, they instead use them as dumping areas. Mtu kabisa na akili zake timamu comes out of his or her house and throws garbage right into the gutter, with no worry at all, yaani bila hata aibu! Kwa sababu haba na haba hujaza kibaba, within a short time the gutter which is meant to transport rain water and drainage is overflowing with garbage. Currently most parts of the country are experiencing heavy rains, so you know what happens, mitaro inafunga, maji hayapiti, because the drainage system is clogged. Water will always find a way through, that is why when the water cannot pass through the clogged system, it flows over right into houses and roads, causing chaos and havoc, inakua ni shida mtindo mmoja. And then funny as it may sound, these ignorant fellows will summon reporters to come and witness the terrible conditions they are living in, and employing the same statement which has become like the national anthem to some Tanzanians…..tunaomba serikali itusaidie… “Jamani tunateseka, tunaomba serikali iingilie kati, ituhurumie, tuna watoto.” Seriously, you really need the government to come and educate you on the use of a gutter? Muwe hata na aibu kidogo! Do you honestly want the president to come and stand before you, with a blackboard and chalk, and tell you that you are not supposed to throw your garbage in the gutter? Yaani aache kazi zake aje awaambie muache upumbavu? Shame on you!! Let us be realistic and call a spade a spade, not a big spoon, kuna watu wana tabia mbaya sana, as long as we are all grownups, we should try and behave like grownups, mtafundishwa hadi lini? That is why sometimes western countries look at Africa and laugh behind their shirt sleeves, kweli kabisa. When cholera breaks out, you cry for the government to intervene, forgetting that prevention is better than cure, kwani mnataka kuambiwa hadi lini? Change, believe me, starts from the mind, and I believe Africans should change their way of thinking, ni kwa ajili yetu wenyewe na watoto wetu.