THE Board of East African Breweries Limited (EABL) has appointed Ms Jane Karuku as new Group Managing Director, replacing Mr Andrew Cowan who served in the EABL business for four and a half years. Mr Cowan is taking up a new role in Diageo’s global business as managing director for Africa Regional Markets. Ms Karuku is a dynamic business leader, with strong management experience spanning over 25 years in fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) and non-governmental organisations. EABL Group Board Chairman, Dr Martin Oduor-Otieno, said: “We are delighted to have Ms Jane Karuku take over the role of Group Managing Director at EABL due to her remarkable wealth of experience, having served within the board and also managing the Kenya business. “I am very confident that her depth of expertise and knowledge of the business will lead the Group to future growth in line with our strategy.” At the same time Dr Oduor-Otieno thanked Mr Cowan for his immense contribution to EABL during his tenure of office. “During his time in this role, Mr Cowan led the development and implementation of a strategy that had led to significant growth across the region. He has built a strong, inclusive management team that has led to succession by one of his own team members. He led the strategic turnaround in our Tanzania business and motivated for significant capital investments, including the investment in the Kisumu plant in Kenya and expansion investment at our Dar es Salaam, Moshi and Kampala breweries.” Before joining KBL, Ms Karuku was president of Alliance for the Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), responsible for one of Africa’s largest grant-making organisations in the food security and agricultural development sector. Previously, she held a host of senior positions in various other organisations, including Cadbury’s East & Central Africa as Managing Director before joining Telkom Kenya, as Deputy Chief Executive and Secretary-General. The appointments of Ms Karuku and Mr Cowan will take effect from January 1, 2021 putting her in charge of the operations in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania.