THE Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment) Ummy Mwalimu has said despite some challenges facing the Union between Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar it remains highly beneficial to the people of both sides of the Union. “Our Union remains stronger and people must enhance it by maintaining cooperation, peace and unity,” Ms Mwalimu said after visiting several projects under Tanzania Social Action Fund (Tasaf) on Unguja Island where she also held a meeting with Second Vice-President Hemed Suleiman Abdalla. She said Tanzania and Zanzibar shared economic, social and political issues such as common trade, marriage, the free movement of people and projects like the Tasaf which had improved the welfare of many people in the country. The minister said the people of Tanzania and Zanzibar had been happy with the Union since it was formed 57 years ago because it was an opportunity for economic development and the people who were opposed to the Union should not be allowed to spoil it. “Use of hate language and mocking our union has no place and challenges shouldn’t weaken our uniqueness. Definitely, the challenges in the Union will be addressed gradually,” Ms Ummy said as she encouraged public awareness on benefits of the Union. During her short visit to Zanzibar she inspected dispensary projects at Kianga Village and secondary schools of Fujoni (construction of a multipurpose hall including for examination) and Mahonda (construction of the administration block and a classroom). Tasaf Coordinator on Unguja Island Makame Ali Haji the project to alleviate poverty in the country had been going on well since it started in 2014 and 539 sub-projects on the environment, forests, feeder roads, water, fisheries, farming and irrigation had been implemented. “People have benefited from Tasaf projects as they were paid more than 8.1bn/- for working during the implementation,” Mr Haji said, adding that poor families also benefited from a conditional cash transfers programme. Mr Khalid Bakar Amrani, Director of Union Affairs thanked the minister for sparing time to visit Zanzibar at this time after her appointment by President John Magufuli. “The future of the Union is bright, people should continue living peacefully.”