PREMIER League top riders Young Africans sealed an 18-game unbeaten run despite a 1-1 draw with Tanzania Prisons at tricky Mandela stadium in Sumbawanga yesterday. The match which opened the second round of the Premier League was a throwback to the first round encounter in Dar es Salaam where the teams also drew 1-1. Physique and long balls dominated the match in the water-logged pitch Mandela Stadium. The first 45 minutes ended with a barren draw as none of them managed to open a goal account. Prisons could have registered a goal at 31st minute from Salum Kimenya but it was well saved by Yanga’s custodian Metacha Mnata. Prisons looked to have superior defending tactics compared to their opponents who were better at the midfield which was marshalled by Tuisila Kisinda, Feisal Salum and Mukoko Tonombe. The Prisons game tactic was more on teamwork; they attacked together and defended together, a system that gave Yanga a very hard time. Jumanne Elifadhili registered an opening goal in the 52nd minute of the game from a free kick taken by Nurdin Chona. Saidi Ntibazonkiza could put Yanga at level, five minutes later with a wonderful acrobatic kick, but his attempt went wide. Yanga levelled the matters in 76th minute through Ntibazonkiza who completed the ball that penetrated Prisons defenders. After registering the goal, Yanga were more aggressive, seeking to score the winner, but it was impossible as Prison defence stood firm. Yanga now have maintained their undefeated record in this season. They have so far played 18 games and won 13 of them while drawing in five games to register 44 points. Prisons picked the ninth place after collecting 22 points from five wins, seven draws and six losses. It has been a good start of the campaign by Yanga despite making a lot of changes to their team. Their traditional rivals Simba are second with 35 points from 15 games. They have an advantage to do better and command the league by goal difference if they win all three games. Azam eventually secured their first victory under Coach George Lwandamina after defeating Polisi Tanzania 1-0 at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi. Ismail Aziz was the club’s hero after netting the winner in the 88th minute. Azam are fixed at third place with 32 points while Polisi sit sixth on the log with 23 points. At Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga, Coastal Union drew 1-1 with Namungo. Namungo scored first in the 10th minute through Iddi Kipagwile while Rashidi Chambo for the hosts in the 76th minute. The results put Coastal at 12th position with 20 points.