WITH all major transformations done by the fifth phase government in the last couple of years, National Institute of Transport (NIT) envisions becoming a truly transport, knowledge and research hub. This was unveiled in Dar es Salaam at the weekend by NIT Rector, Prof Zacharia Mganilwa, in his speech delivered at NIT’s 7th convocation ceremony held at the institute main campus in Mabibo. “Looking at what NIT is doing with the National Strategic Projects such as Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project, the oil pipeline from Hoima in Uganda to Tanga and revival of the National Airline Company (ATCL). Really, NIT is working tirelessly to ensure these projects are getting qualified workers,” he said. Prof Mganilwa added: “We also encourage innovative ideas along with allowing intersections of different disciplines and professions at NIT. For example, we want to see educators and transport professionals working together to prevent road crashes. We want to see business, government and civil society leaders building frameworks to protect the environment while promoting economic growth.” “We would like to see engineers and technology entrepreneurs connecting rural audiences to essential information. Our aim is to produce graduates who are not only ready for demanding jobs, but who will have the skills and the drive to act as entrepreneurs to create new jobs for themselves.” He further said: “Today is an event that evokes different feelings and emotions for graduates, excitement in the anticipation of beginning a new phase of life and for others, joy and satisfaction for what has been achieved.” He pointed out that, the NIT staff had to work continuously in increasing quality assurance and introducing contemporary teaching methods and research. “Let me also congratulate all lecturers, tutors and all other staff members on making such effort to educate, train and qualify all these graduates,” he said. He congratulated best students on their significant achievements they had made which would not have been possible without the support of parents, guardians, sponsors, spouses or friends. For his part, NIT Alumni Vice-Chairman, Dr Amoni Mwasandube, said NIT’s convocation was one of the dynamic platforms for graduates, alumni, well-wishers and NIT at large. “The vision of NIT convocation is to serve as an association of professional and ethical excellence in public and private domains for the development of NIT and beyond,” he said. He added: “…the mission of the convocation is to mobilise NIT alumni and well-wishers to support it and participate in the enhancement and improvement of intellectual and material wellbeing of the NIT community, including fostering ethical and professional relations among members of the convocation and between the convocation and NIT.”