DEPUTY Minister of State in the Vice-President's Office (Union and Environment), Mr Mwita Waitara has issued a two-week ultimatum to Geita regional authorities to investigate a project that involves the construction of a modern waste dumping site at a cost of 1.93bn/-. The deputy minister was prompted to issue the ultimatum to regional authorities after he expressed dissatisfaction on the implementation of the project. The order for investigation on the matter by Mr Waitara was directed to the office of Geita Regional Administrative Secretary and other authorities. The deputy minister issued the order this week when he visited the project site, during which he expressed his dissatisfaction on the explanation he received on the funds allocated for the project and the spending made. According to Mr Waitara, the allocation made for the project was quite different with the work done, insisting that investigation must be carried out so that all project runners can give proper answers to the government. "It is a huge amount of money allocated for the project, but its implementation is poor, to the extent that the Town Council has been prompted to stop its use.  Summon all project implementers so that they can explain this shoddy work," ordered the deputy minister. Head of Town Council's Water and Sanitation Department, Mr Aloys Mutayuga supported the minister’s order for investigation simply because available documents indicated that only 1.58bn/ out of the total budget was spent, with the remaining 416.78m/- missing. He also admitted to have stopped the use of the dump site   following various challenges, including poor work by implementers of the project. "For instance, we found that the hard-nylon sheet did not cover the whole dump. Again, the in-let sewerage hole was weak, because it sinks when vehicles pass over its surface” revealed Mr Mutayuga. Only one out of the agreed water wells for waste filtering was built, which is against the project's directives. The chimney was also sub-standard and outlet pipe system wasn't functioning properly. A tank to receive sewage water was also built inside the dump instead of outside. "The dump hole for hard-waste separation was also incomplete. We were able to identify all those mistakes and wrote to the project's supervisor, the Mwanza Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority, but there has been no response so far. We refused to accept the project until all those mistakes are fixed," stressed Mr Mutayuga. The Council's Environmental Officer, Mr Albert Kashaga, commented that once complete, the estimated dump’s capacity is 20,533 waste tonnes per year, 1711 tonnes per month and 57 tonnes per day. For his part, Geita Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (GEUWASA) Technical Manager, Mr Isaac Mgeni said that the Council is capable of collecting between 700,000 and 900,000 liters of sewerage only while the town produces about 3.9 million liters.