KAUSHIK Mangarolia of Dar es Salaam Gymkhana club emerged as the overall winner of the Rotary Charty Golf tournament that is aimed at donating for the needy community. Held at the Dar es Salaam Gymkhana club course, the event saw Mangarolia winning the title after firing 37 points in the 18- hole tournament. In men’s category, top star Hussein Dewji was too good to earn 32 stableford points also to win on count back after tying with David Zhoo. Sde Van Zyl from Dar es Salaam Gymkhana club chalked 31 points to win the Ladies Division, beating Mary Kinuthia on count back. The junior prize went to Dar es Salaam Gymkhana club, Dhrur Patadia who penned 43 points In seniors’ category Alfred Kinswaga stamped his ultimate authority for 35 stableford points. The Rotary Club of Bahari Dar es Salaam will today hold its 10th Annual Fundraising Golf Tournament at Gymkhana Grounds aimed at raising Tsh40 million. The cash is aimed at helping towards improving the teaching and learning environment at Mtakuja Beach Secondary School in Kinondoni District The Mtakuja Beach Secondary School serves almost 1300 pupils and is housed in a campus in the Kunduchi area. The Rotary Club of Bahari inpartnership with the business community, Rotary Foundation and the school will be investing in rehabilitating the water and sanitation systems in the school, so as to bring clean water, sanitation and hygiene services directly to the children, thereby reducing their exposure to waterborne diseases. Creating healthier water systems in schools create a positive cycle by significantly improving school enrolment, attendance and improved academic performance. Children who attend school and learn positive health behaviors like washing hands take these behaviors home to their families. The project will also assist the school to rehabilitate the classrooms and the furniture and also provide assistance to the school in accessing a reliable printing service. Speaking during the event, the Rotary Club of Bahari President, Rotarian Fred Laiser said the objective of the project is to form an effective partnership between the school management, the parent community and The Rotary Club of Bahari, to transform the learning environment and put in place processes to ensure that the improvements are sustainable thereby resulting in lower school drop-out rates. It also decreases the spread of diseases, hence overall improvement in educational achievement President Laiser believes that by engaging and working together, Mtakuja Beach Secondary School can become amongst the leading schools in the region and a model for effective partnership between the school and the community. He said that the past nine annual golf tournaments have raised over Tshs 300million which contributed towards various club service projects, making a significant difference in the community especially providing support to the underprivileged.