THE government’s investment friendly policies have helped the Morogoro-based company-Vacuna Limited to make a sky-high leap in organic spices farming. The company is specialized in producing high quality spices and steadily- growing roots, has established several investments in Morogoro and Tanga, besides associating its venture with small scale farmers for better, innovative and sustainable agricultural growth with strict organic cultivation. The Company’s Managing Director Maurice Awiti said in an interview with the ‘Daily News' in Morogoro recently that their key crops are black pepper, cinnamon, clove, turmeric, ginger, cardamon and vanilla nutmeg. Mr Awiti said they are very happy with how the government creates friendly and transparent business policies which he says helps to foster business operations and faith especially in agriculture sector which is the nation’s priority. "For this we are sure to work, and with the government support in improving the agriculture sector especially in spices and other agricultural products, the sector is seeing a new dawn now, " he said. The official noted that their company has its own farms in Morogoro and Tanga that have been planted with different crops; all are organic certified by international organic certification bio-Inspector of Switzerland which is subject to constant monitoring of the farms. "We also work and teach small scale farmers on how to farm organic plants and to be innovative  and sustainable as for their farms to have big outputs." Mr Awiti noted that in the near future they are looking at certifying small scale farmers’ farms for those who have managed to farm organically under the supervision and this will help small scale farmers to add value to their crops in local and foreign markets. "We will have a different production scale for big consumers in bulk for exports mainly in Europe and also in a small packaging for the local market, all will be quality organic products. "Spices are not just used for flavouring food or colour, but they have also been for a long time ago, used as traditional herbs or remedies that help the body’s immune system, inflammatory, anti-cancer and other diseases,” added Awiti. He further said they have witnessed in the past 12 months of the Covid-19 scare that spices have been recommended for use to enhance the body immune system. “We at Vacuna we will also use our products as way of educating people about the benefits of using spices not just for flavouring and colouring but also as the key ingredient for our body health."