YOU NG Africans finally announced this week that they were about to get into new management structure of running their club, which is probably the oldest in Eastern Africa. I have used the word, finally, deliberately because talks on Young Africans’ plans to emulate their traditional rivals, Simba in running their club has been in the air for quite a while now. And many people had genuinely wished and expected the club to change its present management structure of running the club, and especially now given the high demand of money for running modern soccer. It was therefore just a matter of time for a club which may be having more members and fans than Simba to get those with adequate money to inject into the day to day running of the club. While the Tanzanian soccer world awaits details on the club’s new management structure, it is our expectations that their new structure for running the club would be better than what their arch rivals have. It is our hopes that they have seen the challenges that their arch rivals may be going through and this should provide them with the opportunity of coming up with better management structure than what their counterparts have. I’m saying that because football is business and for any business to thrive, the investor ought and must be given adequate room so that he can turn around the club’s fortunes. For a very long time, I have personally been looking forward to Young Africans emulating their arch soccer rivals for one main reason, to provide Simba with more competition, more challenges. You see, this country cannot get anywhere in soccer as long as the game continues to be dominated by one club and on the basis of the edge it has in money. We need to increase the competition space and that can only be done if Young Africans have also more than adequate money to challenge their arch soccer rivals. Simba have for a long time spoken about their intention to establish, a scientifically run soccer academy. But to date, they have not yet done that. Young Africans now need to do that. If they establish a scientifically run soccer academy now, Simba will also act and that would benefit Tanzania. Simba have already done that with girls. We have all seen the fruits through the success of the U-17 national soccer team which recently won the COSAFA soccer tournament in South Africa. Roping in investors in our new club management structure would be meaningless until and unless such a club targets youth soccer development as once emphasized by the fourth phase President, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete. Barely a few weeks ago, the clarion call was made by President John Magufuli, but in a different way, when he said Simba and Young Africans had ‘delayed us.’ What the president meant was that given the strength and the age of the two clubs as far as soccer was concerned, they should have long helped this country in taking it to another level in soccer. Now you cannot take Tanzania to another level in soccer if you don’t have a well laid down programme for developing soccer and when you are still relying, and heavily at that, on street developed players! A nd when you talk over the importance of developing players through soccer academy, there is no club in this country which ought to be blamed for its failure to do that than the wananchi’s club, Young Africans. For this is the club which in 1970s showed Africa the best way of developing young soccer talents by getting hold of them when they are still in their tender age. Young Africans did that through a Romanian coach, Professor Victor Stanculescus; and he did that without even a structure in the form of buildings for accommodating the children! If Professor Victor did that at the time, what stops Young Africans and Simba from doing that now? Professor Victor embarked on the project after the then Young Africans leadership under Tabu Mangara Tabu had turned down his request to rebuild the club through total concentration on soccer academy. After hitting the wall, Professor Victor decided to turn his makeshift soccer academy into sideline business, in that, he concentrated in training the senior team from 4 to 6pm and worked on the children from 1pm to 3pm. A nd by the time he was leaving, he had built a stronger and more youthful soccer team than the senior team. I’m writing this not out of hearsay. I used to attend Professor Victor’s soccer sessions on Yanga Kids. During the time, I was living at Ubungo close to where there is this Petrol station at the corner of the road that leads to Mwenge and very close to the bridge. Whenever I was travelling back to Ubungo from the city, I would alight at Jangwani playing fields and watch Yanga Kids in training under Victor and as soon they were through with their training, I would board the bus for Ubungo. Yanga now need to take the lead in soccer academy. The money they would be getting from their new investor should be used in developing soccer talents and not in buying third rate African players.