PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Wednesday presided over the first cabinet meeting following the October 28 General Election, lauding the industrious start to duties by Ministers and Deputy Ministers. The meeting which took place at the Jakaya Kikwete Convention Centre in Dodoma was attended by newly appointed ministers and deputy ministers, who were sworn in last week. Also attending was newlyelected Zanzibar President, Dr Hussein Ali Hassan Mwinyi, who was sworn in by Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma as a member of the Cabinet prior to the start of the cabinet. Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa were also in attendance. Opening the meeting, the Head of State expressed his satisfaction with the way ministers and their deputies he swore in on Independence Day, December 9, have started to perform their tasks and asked them to maintain the pace. President Magufuli’s new government has hit the ground running during its early days as it delivers its ambitious socio-economic objectives. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa got the ball rolling by tackling the cement crisis that had hit the country. “My first assignment as Prime Minister is to investigate causes that have led to the hiking of cement prices,” he declared shortly after he was sworn in by President Magufuli mid last month. “The increase in cement prices is not acceptable, and there is no reason to justify that,” stated Mr Majaliwa. “The government has improved infrastructure including the railway which is cost-effective for transportation. We do not expect such a rise in prices we’re witnessing currently,” he insisted. The Premier then ordered regional commissioners to inspect all cement factories in the country and prosecute owners found hoarding the commodity. In a video conference with the regional administrators, the PM said the inspection should also involve cement sales agents and retailers of the commodity across the country. A few weeks later, the Prime Minister directed the Ministry of Industry and Trade to set price caps for cement in a deliberate move to curb what he termed to be haphazard price increases by unscrupulous traders in the market. Mr Majaliwa also warned traders who harbour profiteering motives through the hoarding of cement, saying doing so amounted to economic sabotage and they would be dealt with in accordance with the law. He has also toured several parts of the country to inspect various projects. Swearing-in his new cabinet, President Magufuli reminded all appointees of the uphill task ahead. He implored them to live up to his expectations by addressing all burning issues falling under their portfolios. He implored his aides to ensure the government delivers promises given by the ruling party during the election campaigns, insisting that there was no time to waste. The Head of State stressed on hard work, ethics and integrity as he sworn-in the new cabinet in the capital Dodoma. President Magufuli directed every ministry to increase their performance for the interest of the nation. The Head of State highlighted a number of challenges facing each and every ministry and asked his appointees to go and address them efficiently, expressing high expectations of his cabinet-- a blend of experienced and young ministers and deputy ministers. The president encouraged boldness, telling the ministers not to shy away from making decisions for the benefit of the country and its people. Within a day of taking oath of office, the newly appointed ministers and deputy ministers showed that they were ready to hit the ground running to fastforward pending as well as new development projects. From internal meetings to familiarisation tours, ministers and their deputies used the platforms to issue key directives in a bid to keep with the fifth phase government’s pace. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Dr Doroth Gwajima held a meeting with the heads of departments, insisting on no more business as usual. Dr Gwajima called upon his subordinates in the ministry and entire health sector to embrace technological changes when implementing their duties so as to improve service delivery to the community and increase productivity. Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mashimba Ndaki started with a visit at the farm of the former Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda in Dodoma. He noted that fish farming in dams and ponds would increase the availability of fish in the country and reduce illegal fishing practices in natural waters. He said the government has made great efforts to improve the fishing sector, including fish farming in dams and ponds, but more efforts are needed to woo the people into fish farming for income generation. On Monday, Minister of State in the President’s Office (Investment), Prof Kitila Mkumbo made a maiden visit to the Tanzania Investment Centre. He directed TIC officials to attract more investors so that the country could easily realise its economic targets, including creation of eight million new jobs by 2025. The following day, he made a familiarisation tour to a number of investments in Coast and Dar es Salaam regions. Moreover, Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Innocent Bashungwa paid a famialisation visit to Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) and Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC). Accompanied by his Deputy, Abdallah Ulega and the Permanent Secretary Dr Hassan Abbasi, the Minister urged the two organisations to continue working hard by preserving and protecting values of the nation for the interests of the nation. Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani and his Deputy, Stephen Byabato made an official tour to the 7tri/- Nyerere Hydropower Project. Dr kalemani ordered a timely build-up of power generation machines for the station. He tasked the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited Board of Directors and the Ministry Permanent Secretary, Eng Zena Ahmed Said to form a special team that will make a close follow up on the matter. Furthermore, on Monday, the Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment), Ummy Mwalimu made her first visit to the National Environmental Council (NEMC) head offices and asked officials there to make sure the environment impact assessment (EIA) certificates are given to investors within 14 days.