OPERATIONS of the new MV Victoria Hapa Kazi tu ship have brought relief to Lake Zone residents, with consumer prices for goods also going down in some areas. Traders and ordinary citizens who spoke to the 'Sunday News' in Kagera said before the resumption of operations by the renovated MV Victoria, commodity prices in the region were high, as they were pushed by transport costs. They said previously all goods were hauled by trucks overland from Mwanza to Kagera, a mode of transport which is believed to be costly, further making life of residents tough. Edisaba General Company Managing Director, Mr Sheni Masanja, whose firm engages in selling cooking oil in Bukoba, said previously some important merchandise went missing in the market as a result of an increase in transport charges, especially during rainy season as vehicle owners also hiked transport costs due to poor road infrastructure. According to Mr Masanja, there is a big difference between road and marine transport in terms of charges, as he now pays only 800,000/- for 25 tonnes of cargo on ship from Mwanza to Bukoba as opposed to 2.2m/- he was paying for road transport for the same cargo. Further speaking on the competitive advantage of marine over road transport, Mr Masanja said while he was spending two or three days to haul his cargo from Mwanza to Bukoba, now it takes only eight to ten hours to accomplish the same task. His counterpart, a fruit seller, Ms Ajath Ibrahimu affirmed a big drop in transportation costs because there is no weighing system for road transportation, but just cost estimation for a certain product. "For instance, we paid between 2,000/- and 4,000 for a bunch of bananas and 10,000/- for a sack of fruits estimated to be of 100kg weight. There was no bargaining since the truck drivers claimed to have a target of submitting to their bosses an amount between 600,000/- and 700,000/- per trip,” she said. In this case, the business men had no option but to pay the charges, a move that affected their business as they were forced to sell their goods at higher prices. “The charges of transporting goods through this ship stands at 27,000/- per tonne, this is a big relief to business men and consumers at large,” she said. According to her, the availability of a low cost ship has encouraged more people to venture into the fruit business. "If you go to Mwanza right now, you will see people vending mostly bananas, mangoes and avocado. This is the result of efforts that were taken by the government to improve marine transport in Lake Victoria,” she added. 