AS Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco) starts a countrywide operation of cutting off power from all buildings occupied by private and public institutions, Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani ordered the indebted institutions to clear their bills as no entity will be spared from the operation. Dr Kalemani issued the ministry’s stance in Dodoma yesterday, insisting that the exercise is to help the power utility company to supply electricity across the remaining 2,280 villages in the country. “Power disconnection has begun, and let me caution all those who are trying to call me... I will not listen to you for any favors,” he said immediately after inspecting the construction work of the Zuzu power station in the outskirt of the city that is projected to supply 248 megawatts in the capital Dodoma. According to the Minister, some institutions that have faced the wrath of the decision have so far begun paying. The Minister, however, couldn’t disclose the specific institutions and the amount paid so far, but insisted there has been a positive turn-out of customers paying their bills. Dr Kalemani issued a countrywide power disconnection call last Sunday, highlighting that over 180bn/- remains unpaid bills in the hands of debtors. Over 3.6bn/-, he said, involved ordinary customers. The completion of construction work at Zuzu, grows Dodoma’s energy capacity by fourfold. The Minister said the region’s demand grew to 48megawatts in 2020, from only 15megawatts in 2017, nearly overlapping the power capacity which also stood at 48megawatts. Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) embarked on an expansion project of Zuzu substation to stabilise electricity supply in the capital city. The project initially involved the construction of a 220kv power distribution line and transformers, but later the government secured 64.8million US dollars from the African Development Bank to finance the country’s backbone transmission investment project. The project is also projected to bring an additional 400kv power lines. Dr Kalemani hailed Tanesco’s executive for completing the project eight days prior of the December 30th deadline. “I want the 400kv power line from Singida to Iringa to be completed by March next year,” he said, rejecting a proposal from Tanesco to complete the project by next June. The Minister said the energy available can now power industries and factories without interruption. He directed Tanesco to speed up power connectivity in the region, stressing that there is enough energy which needs consumers. According to the minister, there has been a challenge in surveying new customers, saying it was high time the power utility firm purchases motorcycles for every surveyor to fast-track the process. “I want to emphasize that the Singida-Manyara project must be completed on time,” he said, detailing that the project is expected to connect Tanzania to Kenya and Zambia. Dr Kalemani highlighted that with the government moving faster in implementing the Julius Nyerere Hydroelectric Power Project (JNHPP), the power distribution line must be ready to receive and sell electricity in Kenya from Ethiopia and from Tanzania to Zambia. The Backbone Transmission Investment project includes the construction of 670km Iringa-Dodoma-Singida-Shinyanga transmission line and four extended 220kv substations. Eng Peter Kigadye, Project Coordinator said the transmission line has a capacity to transmit over 2000megawatts. He detailed that the Zuzu substation has already connected the State House in Chamwino and is expected to connect the government city at Mtumba in the coming eight days. “The centre now has the capacity to pump 248megawatts and it will be connecting Singida and Arusha regions,” he said, assuring the minister that the job will be completed on time. Eng Kigadye said construction work on the 414km Singida-Arusha transmission line is now at 97 per cent of completion, and that the company will soon embark on the construction of a 624km section Iringa—Sumbawanga line.