YOUTH football development in the country seems to have caught the right rhythm following the level of success recorded by junior level flag carriers in International duels. This is one thing which needs to be applauded, bearing in mind that in order to have competitive senior national team, then much work should be done at the foundation level where talents are sourced and nurtured. The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and other concerned stakeholders in football development are doing a recommendable job by running series of grassroots level projects across the country, which are aimed at imparting football skills to youthful players. The fruits of such projects are now getting ripe and enjoyed by many Tanzanians who love the game of football and always look keen to see big achievements stamped by home soil teams in major competitions. However, to succeed at the foundation stage of football development is not such a simple task at all since much investment is required to ensure that the intended goals are met. Go everywhere in this world where the game of football is well developed like Brazil, Italy, Spain and England to mention few places, you will realise that they put extra efforts in the programmes meant for youth development, by recruiting expatriate coaches who only deal with the youth affairs. They know what are the right training sessions to be given by young people of various age categories and at the same time, tutoring them nutrition requirements they ought to take as they grow. Talking about nutrition, this is another area where TFF and their partners in football enhancement should look at using an eagle eye because it plays a critical role in one’s development. Teach young players the type of food they should consume, as well as those they have to avoid or partially take so that the intake of their training programmes should match with what they eat as these two things are inseparable when it comes to playing football. All these packed together, you can definitely be able to develop the young players to reach far in their careers and become respectable citizens. However, to excel is not something which can descend overnight since it requires a lengthy period and patience without losing hope but, the most important of all is to find right people to do the job who should never be compromised by personal interests. Another essential thing to be considered while nurturing youth talents is to make sure that they do not just let freely like that but must be protected like carrying a basket of eggs. A lot of good talents have been lost along the way because such people had nobody to guide them thereby losing direction and in the end, failing to use well their blessings. The marching of the county’s Under-17 side, Serengeti Boys into the Africa Youth Championship (AYC) set to be played in Morocco next year has added to the achievements made by the youth flagship teams. This means Serengeti Boys have succeeded to qualify in AYC in three consecutive periods, a development that should never be underestimated, as it symbolically testifies that youth football is climbing up the ladders. They first appeared in the U-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in 2017 whose finals were played in Gabon. After that, they also competed in the 2019 edition of AYC and fortunately, the finals were played in the country before millions of Tanzanians. Now, next year will be the third time to venture into the contest therefore, no more excuses of lack of experience will be entertained this time around, since the boys have been there and the culture of how it feels to play in the AYC finals is now with them. Had it been an employment opportunity which requires the successful candidate to have three years of working experience, then Serengeti Boys could have been selected as they have met that criteria. People would like to congregate at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam to welcome home the sparkling AYC title and possibly, President John Magufuli could lead such passionate fans to receive the champions. Time is gone to hear the same stories of poor preparations if a team fail to impress since sometimes, players just need motivation to fight hard on the battlefield even though they may have poor preps. With the recent declaration by the government that it will fully be involved in sport activities which flies high the national colours outside the country, definitely, the excuses of poor preparations will be an old song, since people want to see only successes.