A REACH for the moon, land on the stars type of thing. When we’re young, we really only know of very limited pictures of success. We don’t understand the complexities of life. We don’t know how many, many experiences are validating and satisfying that aren’t quite as obvious to the naked eye. We just know of fame and money. That’s what we see as success. But, as we get older, we learn that there are many other ways to feel successful, and to be proud of how we spend our time on this planet. And, hey, some people don’t realize that, and they fail to appreciate all that they’ve accomplished, simply because it isn’t that one thing they’ve always dreamed of. But dreams come true in more subtle ways. Here are ways your perspective on success shifts as you get older. Applying the lessons you learn If you can catch yourself recognizing a familiar situation, understanding the way you failed in it last time, and applying that lesson for a better result this time, you feel pretty damn successful. You understand that if you have the ability to admit fault and see room for improvement that you have a chance of continuing to thrive. Keeping a job for a while Hey holding onto a job for a long time is nothing to sneeze at. There is a lot of competition out there. Your boss didn’t settle for you. You provide satisfying results. You show up. You do what you say you will. You impress. As you get older, you learn how many people struggle to just do the things they say they’ll do or show up when they say they will. Making payments on time You can feel like you really have your stuff together because you make your payments on time. You even have your car insurance, health insurance, Internet bill, and similar bills on auto-pay. You feel that confident that the funds will be there each month. That’s amazing. Your work creates the money that keeps the lights on – perhaps not just for you, but even for your loved ones. Wow. Forward momentum Just moving forward is a form of success. You realize that as you get older. If you can say that you are definitively further along today than you were yesterday and that yesterday you were further along than you were the day before, that’s something to feel good about. You track those moments. You see that progress over time and understand it’s all a part of getting where you’re going. Work-life balance Having a work-life balance is a huge achievement. People can struggle in either direction. They can either be all work, but have no close friendships, no romantic relationships, and no close ties with family. Or, they can have all of that stuff, but feel unfulfilled in their career ambitions because they put that on the back burner. If you feel happy with the energy you’re putting into both arenas, you’re doing something right. Having the respect of your peers Eventually, you stop wishing that that one person who is 100 steps ahead of you would notice you and you find satisfaction in the fact that your peers respect you. Within your peer group, your name is known, and when people use it, it’s to say good things. You’ve really planted roots in your industry. Keeping a passion project alive Maybe the work that pays most of your bills isn’t the thing you’re passionate about. That’s okay. It’s very hard to make that happen. But at least you are keeping your passion project alive. You aren’t giving up on it. You keep going. You make time, every day, or at least every week, to keep working on that book or writing your songs or writing those jokes or making that art. Persistence If you can think of the many, many times when you were let down, set back, pushed down, weren’t the victor, and didn’t get the result you wanted, and you can say that you kept going, that’s a huge deal. Anyone who got anywhere got there through persistence. Persistence and success are nearly one and the same. Doing it, even when you don’t feel like it There is one major difference between those who have lots of achievements and those who don’t: people with achievements do things that they don’t feel like doing, all of the time. They don’t only do it when it’s convenient or when they’re in the mood or when they have the energy. They do it, when they say they will, regardless of external factors. If you do that, you’re impressive. Meeting your own standards You stop caring so much about how your work stands up to others’ work. You stop comparing so much. You let go of caring about what others think. You learn that brings you no happiness. Instead, you identify what your own standards are for yourself. And if you meet or exceed those, you feel successful. You de-emphasize the money Money matters, of course, but you let go of the financial results of your work. You don’t think as much about results as you do just being proud of the work that you do. Whatever it is you do or create, you just focus on doing or creating it the best way you can. Whatever comes of that comes. But you don’t do it, all with money in mind. But you’re proud of financial stability Of course, you are proud of financial stability. You come to learn just how much it meant that your parents went to work and you never wanted for anything. And if you did want for something, perhaps you understand the value of financial stability even more. If something comes up that requires money and you need it, you realize it’s a big achievement that you can pay for it. Sticking to your values If you stick to your values, you feel successful. And your values become one of the most important things. Someone may offer you a great opportunity, but if you don’t like what that person represents or what that person puts out in the world, you’ll turn it down, because taking the opportunity would mean turning your back on your values. Being helpful when you can be If you can say that you help others when you can, you feel successful. Perhaps you stop asking yourself so much what others can do for you and you start focusing more on what you can do for others. You stop asking, “Why doesn’t that person above me help me more?” and instead ask, “Is there anybody who looks at me that way, who I can help?” Putting something positive out there If you put something positive out into the world with your work, you feel accomplished. If you can say that the lives of those who interact with you and your work are better for it, then that’s a success. Impacting people in a positive way is no small deal.