NOTHING short of hard work, determination and extra skill display will help our envoys Simba clear FC Platinum hurdle as the CAF Champions League has reached a point of no return. That determination should start right from the away match on December 12 since winning away, like what Simba did to Plateau United, can give our envoys a downhill task in the return leg match in Dar es Salaam a week later. The pep talk is over for Simba and our CAF Confederations Cup envoys, Namungo should realise they have reached a point very close to the group stage of the both CAF level duels. We challenge our both envoys to aim higher this time around since a win by a big margin is all they both to put themselves in a comfortable zone of reaching the group stage. We expect the best from our envoys putting into consideration both have had lengthy time to hone their skills for the crucial showdown, hence; it is our belief that they are ripe for any challenge. Both Simba and Namungo should not think the job can be easily done the way they did against Plateau United and Al Rabita, they should know they will be meeting quite new outfits this time around. It’s true that the away victory gives a team a downhill task in the return match. We want our envoys to treat both first and return legs equally since football has changed and an away venue too can serve well as a home venue in professional football. To the players and the team’s technical bench, they must take the match seriously since advancing to the group stage will help improve the football status of the country, team and the players altogether. Owing to its status as the biggest club-level tournament in Africa, players play a crucial role here since the tournament provides them a platform to showcase their quality, market their skills and their teams, all of them very crucial in a modern and business oriented football. We urge our both teams Simba and Namungo to take their matches seriously as their opponents are also hunting for the same treasure. Simba, who last year ended their campaign prematurely by losing to UD Songo of Mozambique, should know that playing in the CAF level championship is not only commendable, but a giant step that heightens the status of players, teams and the country’s level of football. The CAF Champions League is tough and highly competitive, and the matches’ results will be an indication of where we stand in terms of continental standards.