ON Friday Christians in Tanzania and across the world celebrate Christmas to mark the birth of Jesus Christ about 2,000 years ago and after a week we will mark the New Year 2021. During festive seasons many things happen – good and bad alike. On the one hand, this is the time for families, friends, neighbours and colleagues to meet and share joys and good memories and thank God for what he has done in their lives and plan for the future. It is a time of togetherness and reminding each other that together we can face the future with realism. On the other, it is the time also we may hear bad news that frustrates us as some unscrupulous people use the opportunity to engage in criminal activities that harm others. We want to reiterate what the government and religious leaders often remind us to do – that is to maintain peace and harmony and ensure the festive season ends well. It is often the case that, times like this one, accidents occur and the causes are often human factors – such as reckless driving. This often results in losses of lives or serious injuries that leave victims either in short or long-term deformities. As we end the year 2020, we should make resolutions on what we are going to do in 2021 so that we change our lives from bad to good, from good to better or from better to best. Doing this involves soul-searching to discover our strengths so that we may maintain them and our weaknesses so that we may avoid them or at least turn them into opportunities. As a country, there are positive things we have done to reach a stage we are in at the moment and there are many examples in this regard, but there are also weaknesses which we have to acknowledge so that we don’t repeat them. So, we can utilise as a social analysis method this approach of ‘see-judge-act’ to work on issues that we want to change in our country and in ourselves. Thus, let us take a resolute action as we approach the end of the year to engage in productive work that will keep us walking on the right path as persons and as a nation. May this festive season inspire us to be new people with new ideas that we will put them into practice in the New Year 2021 and make it prosperous for all of us.