THE government has expressed its commitment to work and support people with disabilities so that they may take active role in building the country’s economy. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Sunday during an inclusive Walkathon organized by Dr Reginald Mengi Persons with Disabilities Foundation (DRMF) ahead of International Day of Persons with disabilities which expect to take place on Thursday this week, Ilala District Commissioner Ng’wilabuzu Ludigija said the government will continue showing its commitment in supporting people with disabilities. “Our government is committed and it is currently working on inclusive strategic plan for people with disabilities” he said. The International Day of People with Disability for this year for IDPwD 2020 is “Not All Disabilities Are Visible” He said the government has been practical and it cares the interests of people with disabilities. “As you all know that our president Dr John Magufuli has appointed some people with disabilities to senior staff and ministers in his government, he said. The founder and Executive Director of Lukiza Autism Foundation Tanzania and a mother of a child with autism Hilda Nkabe said autism is worrying in Tanzania. “Autism is a big problem in our societies and most of parents are not aware about this kind of invisible disability. It’s very unfortunate that no official data of autism children currently in Tanzania” she said She said autism is expensive saying the government should establish special needs for the children with autism “It’s expensive. For instance, I spend more than a million for my child per month to undergo special therapy. Children with autism need special therapy and school. The government should start thinking to establish special schools for this group” she said The DC said the government is implementing the inclusive national education policy which aims at eliminating differences in schools. However, the District Commissioner said in Illala District that government has allocated and already disbursed about 1.2 billion for people with disabilities. “In our district, we have started and I would like to call people with disabilities to form groups and come to get funds of zero interests” he said