WIDESPREAD adoption of agricultural technologies has today lifted millions of people out of poverty and famine, allowing the world to grow and develop as we know it. Fertilisers have revolutionised the agricultural sector, which in Tanzania is the key economic driver. The use of these key farm ingredients has made more food accessible and available in many households than ever before. It is from this fact that Tanzanian agricultural experts need to enhance the awareness campaign about one of farming’s most important ingredients and to highlight the need for continued agricultural research, innovation in agriculture, with the end goal of food sustainability at the core of the campaign. The Tanzania Fertiliser Regulatory Authority (TFRA) has since its establishment in 2012 spearheaded the enforcement of laws, policies, regulations governing the manufacturing, importation and use of and trade in fertilisers, or fertiliser supplements. The agency regulates the quality and trade of fertiliser supplements in the entire value chain -- including manufacturing, importation, domestic distribution, storage and exportation. Indeed, in an agrarian country like Tanzania whereby the majority of its population derives its livelihood from farming, fertilisers play a fundamental role of replacing the nutrients that crops remove from the soil. Increased fertiliser use can lead to modest but immediate and important increases in yields, while the profitability of other technologies will be stifled without adequate plant nutrients. With Tanzania’s population steadily growing, it is important that enough crops are produced each year to provide food, clothing and other agricultural products to people in the country. Fertilizers are essential to the security of the country’s food supply, and they must be used properly. To date, the government has opened windows for any investors in the fertiliser value chain. Domestic manufacturing will reduce fertiliser prices, create employment for Tanzanians and contribute to the national economy at large. As our country boasts of an enabling environment for domestic fertiliser manufacturing based on the existence of political will, the ever increasing population (assured fertiliser markets), the presence of raw materials, huge local and foreign markets and favourable infrastructures, we need to advance an educational campaign throughout the country so that many farmers can utilise fertilisers to increase crop production. So far, TFRA has done a commendable job of issuing licences to more than 4,000 fertiliser business premises across the country to help in fertiliser distribution countrywide.