EMERGENCY medical services in the country are set to record yet another milestone as a local organisation plans to introduce air ambulance services. A professionally recognised organisation providing medical services, Tindwa Medical and Health Services in Tanzania (TMHS), says it will introduce the service beginning next year, immediately after receiving blessings from the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA). In an exclusive interview with the ‘Daily News’, TMHS Marketing and Corporate Relations Manager, Ms Esther Ndazi said the move aims at offering medical evacuation, especially in remote areas where ground medical evacuation becomes difficult. “For example, there are flagship projects being undertaken in the country, including the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project and Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHP), where workers are on the sites in remote areas every day,’’ she said. According to her, emergency evacuation services to people working in remote areas can only be provided by air ambulances, as she expressed optimism that her organisation was well prepared to offer that service. Elaborating on air medical rescues, Ms Ndazi said the organisation has fully equipped helicopters, caravans and jets, depending on particular needs which are always complemented by medical doctors and paramedics. This is the first time the country is having such service since evacuation services ought to be provided by vehicles. According to Ms Ndazi, air ambulance evacuation services were expected to kick off next year, and that there will be premier air ambulances and standby air ambulances, whereas the main centre will be in Dar es Salaam. “We usually do confirmation via our medical experts to assess the situation of a patient, and we are able to deliver services to people wherever they are,’’ she insisted. TMHS is a professionally operated company with reliable, safe and best experience in Occupational Health and Safety, Emergence Medical Services as well as Waste and Environmental Management Service. The organisation provides medical evacuation services 24/7, first aid kits, and trauma bags that meet international standards as well as doing ground medical evacuations using fully equipped ambulances.