VERONICA Wana is a teacher residing at Kivule Ward in Dar es Salaam. For over ten years now she has been active in establishing gender clubs in her area. Such student-led youth clubs provide girls and boys with the skills they require to speaking out on the challenges that hinder their successful schooling and integration into the society. TGNP Executive Director Lilian Liundi says that the initiative to establish such clubs in different parts of the country is to empower adolescent girls and young women through education. “In some districts, students find challenges to complete their education in school such as gender-based violence. Girls face more serious challenges such as teenage marriage, early pregnancies, and social-cultural norms” says Ms. Liundi She adds that abused pupils and students find it difficult to report on cases of abuse due to lack of safe reporting mechanisms, such as guidance and counselling support, leading to them discontinuing their schooling. Wana adds that recognising existing challenges, the project in Kivule and other parts of Dar es Salaam has been working closely with students, teachers, parents, and community members to create safer learning environments, with a focus on girl students, so that they can complete their schooling and make a successful transition to higher education and productive adulthood, as members of their communities. “Training and awarenessraising activities provided include student-friendly guidance, counselling training for teachers, community sensitisation on existing legal and regulatory framework that support girls education, gender-responsive pedagogy for teacher training." She says Wana says that establishing youth clubs is a key component of the effort to respond the challenges facing a girl child, and in partnership with TGNP, gender clubs emphasise students-led platforms to enhance adolescent girls’ selfconfidence and determination in remaining in school. In Kivule Ward, student members of clubs are provided with training on gender equality; where to report or seek guidance and counselling support; and how to undertake collective action. Through the training, says Wana, students are inducted on how to create diverse forms of art, such as drama, poetry, songs based on critical issues that students face, as well as, an open discussion with parents and teachers. The effect of such trainings are immediate, says Wana, as she recounted a situation where a girl that suffered from child abuse at home reported the abuse to a guidance and counselling teacher in her school, a day after the training. Anne Makinda, retired Speaker of the National Assembly who was guest of honour at the commemoration of 25 days after Beijing Conference at the TGNP grounds in Mabibo, Dar es Salaam recently said violence against women is a complex problem that can’t be solved with a quick fix. “It is also incredibly common – 1 in 3 women globally will experience violence in their lifetime. It requires a variety of responses, with a strong focus on prevention and changing gender norms to cultivate gender equality” she says. She adds that long-term change can’t come at the expense of supporting the millions of women around the world who experience violence every day. Among the achievements recorded by the government towards ending GBV is the establishment of 420 gender and children desks in 26 regions in the country, he said. Likewise, The Tanzania Prisons Service has joined forces by starting up to 161 gender desks at the prisons. He added that GBV survivors in health facilities setting one-stop centres had been established for the provision of specialised services to help victims. So far, 14 centres have been started. “The goal is to provide similar services at regional and district hospitals countrywide. Major achievements have been recorded in juvenile cases dealt in line with the law of the child and juvenile court rules to ensure the rights and well-being of children were protected” he said. The official added that the move was also meant to ensure children who were diverted from the full justice system were treated in communities and rehabilitation centres. “We have developed divergent skills, whereby children who are in conflict with the law are taken to rehabilitation centres,” he says. Other aspects include looking for fit homes, foster families and adopting families to enjoy the care and support regardless of other challenges. The guest of honour at the event, Mama Anne Makinda insisted that without gender education to all people, violence against women and children won’t be easy to tackle. “We need to pull efforts together against all forms of violence against women. Children at home should be treated equally without looking at their sex. We need enough resources to fight gender-based violence” said Mama Makinda. In February this year, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan was the guest of honour at the Women’s Day climax event in Simiyu Region and she praised all organisations fighting gender-based violence. She emphasised the need to continue prioritising higher levels of education for women and girls to close the gender gap in sectors such as politics governance and the judiciary. On that particular day, UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. Zlatan Milisic, who was present highlighted the need to accelerate the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal number five, which speaks about Gender Equality in order to achieve this goal by 2030. “By 2030, we should live in a world where women and girls have access to education, healthcare and decent work. We should live in a world where women and girls live free from violence and are equally represented in political and economic decisionmaking processes,” said Mr. Milisic. On the same day, UN Women Representative, Ms. Hodan Addou said that despite significant gender equality gains in Tanzania, there was still ground to cover in order to fully realise women’s rights. To reach that goal, she said there was a need to work harder to ensure that poverty no longer has a woman’s face and ensure