RESIDENTS of Shinyanga have been called to cultivate a culture of using mobile money platforms to save, send and receive payments promptly, conveniently and safely. The appeal was made by the Shinyanga Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Boniface Chambi in Shinyanga while launching a new modern Airtel Money Branch in the region. “This is a safe way of sending, receiving and saving money. We have residents residing in rural areas where they are no banking services. I call upon them to have a tendency of using Airtel Money to keep their money for their safety,” he said. He said the presence of Airtel Money agents in different parts of the region makes it easy to cash out their money at any time when a need arises. He added, “I have been given information on various services and products offered by Airtel Tanzania and have been very impressed by Airtel Money services.” Mr Chambi commended Airtel Tanzania for taking their services closer to their customers as it shows how the company is committed in promoting mobile services in the country to enable them reach all Tanzanians regardless their economic status. Airtel Tanzania is a company owned by Tanzanians by 49 per cent shares through their government and thus this is unique opportunity for you to continue using Airtel services and products. He lauded Airtel Tanzania for taking financial services to the most of unbanked population in Shinyanga region. Airtel Tanzania Shinyanga sales Officer Ezekiel Emmanuel said that Airtel in the region is committed in taking services closer to customers in order to make communication available and affordable. “Here in Shinyanga region we have 49 Airtel money branches. For Shinyanga town, we have three of them and this is to make sure that our services are available and accessible at every corner of the region,” he said. Moreover, there are 657 Airtel money agents in Shinyanga region who are serving Airtel customers. “We are so glad that Airtel in Shinyanga region has been supporting the government on offering employment opportunities to the  Tanzanian youth,” he noted. The 657 Airtel Money agents are boys and girls whom  have been trained in order to serve Airtel customers. They are self-employed and depend on offering Airtel services and products for their daily living.