THE Foundation for Civil Society (FCS) has equipped youth with skills in their professionals to match with demand of job markets. The foundation's move is part on marking the global movement so called 'Giving Tuesday'. The 'Giving Tuesday' is touted as a global generosity movement unleashing the power of people and organizations to transform their communities and the world. Speaking at the official opening of the ‘Giving Tuesday’ on Wednesday in Dar es Salaam, the FCS Executive Director Francis Kiwanga said the aim was to share experience between the employers and graduates. He said the experience has shown that most university graduates were unable to compete in the job market due to some reasons including lack of practical skills. “There is a mismatch between the graduates and the market demand such as labour skills the situation which caused them to lose intended jobs. It is our hope that our today conversation will help to add value to the expected new graduates who will enter the market,” he said. Mr Kiwanga further noted that the training had also focused on students who plan to venture in the business adding that the true development will be brought by Tanzanians themselves especially the youth. According to him, there was a need to build capacity for the higher learning students to enable them to utilize effectively the opportunities available in the labour market to fast-track economic development. For his part, the Dean of students at the University of Dar es Salaam, Prof Ulingeta Mbamba admitted that there was a big challenge facing graduates seeking jobs in the labour market. He said UDSM had embarked on courses to nourish the graduates so that they can address challenges they encounter once entering the labour market and enable them deliver. “We have our incubator here to enable all those students who have their business idea and want to focus on entrepreneurship. The varsity enables them to develop until their ideas materialize and become businesspeople,” he said. Sia Ngowa, a Student at Institute of Development Studies (IDS) at the University of Dar es Salaam, welcomed the training saying that it will add value to their skills to compete in the labour market. “We have today acquired the skills and exposed the reality on the market ground. Therefore, it is our duty to work on it so that we can compete in the labour market against others, including from neighbouring countries,” she said.