SIMBA Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck has expressed his satisfaction after guiding his side to a crucial 1-0 away win against Mbeya City on Sunday at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya. Skipper John Bocco scored an all important goal in the first half of the match which sustained until the final whistle was blown to signal the end of the tense match. It was his eighth goal of the season as he still commands the top goal scoring chart of the unfolding league after using well a timely assist from Zambian playmaker Clatous Chama, who has so far provided a total of seven assists. The triumph saw Simba reaching 29 points and they have a chance to hit 31 points if they manage to outplay KMC tomorrow in the city in the midweek Premier League fixture. However, speaking after the match, Vandenbroeck said the most important thing on the day was to bring back home three points, a mission which they succeeded to accomplish. “I give a lot of compliment to my team because we set that this would be a tough match and after 90 minutes, we were right about that. “I am very happy with the defensive, mental and physical output from my players but I am not happy with the technical part...I think we could have cooled down the game more but three points is all that matters and we will now focus on our Wednesday’s match against KMC,” he said. Again, the Belgian trainer conceded that his team had problems to deal with second balls while insisting that they managed to contain the danger part from the hosts. His counterpart for Mbeya City Mathias Lule narrated that the main setback his side had during the game was lack of sharpness at the goal mouth. “For now, we need to learn on how to score goals from the good chances we create. We are going to sit down and find the way forward on how to wisely use the sourced chances,” he said. Lule added that his team played good football only that the final outcome was not what they anticipated on the day. “We always get a chance to enter into the 18-yard box of our opponents but, the main problem is to put the ball behind the net. We must get a long lasting solution to this,” the Ugandan coach said. On his part, Mbeya City striker Kibu Denis who had a wonderful match before being substituted later in the second half said their game plan was to win but, the final output was different. Denis, who put on a number 8 jersey, was a thorn in fresh for Simba as he was able to make full use of his stamina thereby asking more questions to Simba defenders than they could answer.