One of the things I’ve heard severally from my male friends, especially the outgoing calibre, is that they wouldn’t want a woman to be their boss. Several years ago, one of my friends left a job where he had a woman as his boss, and I remember his freedom speech very well. He said, “I will never ever have a woman as my boss”. He went off to start his own company and has since been happier (I expect). Sometimes in 2018, I met up with one of the ‘awesomest’ groups I have ever been part of, young and unmarried folks above 25 years of age, who love Jesus, pursuing different careers. (The ‘young’ is silent because it is relative). We met on a Sunday for lunch and a catch up. I still remember how loudly I had insisted that we do not visit another mall for any of our meetings. We had been to every mall you can think of within the city and we all wanted change. After our hunger was satisfied, a conversation about marriage and money floated. The main question was to the gentlemen, as to whether they would marry ladies who earned more than them. The quickest answers were ‘NOs, the YESs needed to be explained, and most of my good friends maintained their stand; NO! There could have been other reasons for their response, but my understanding was that they felt more secure in relationships if they earned more than their spouses. The last week, I have thought more about women more than any other time of my life. There are days I move about thinking of myself as a human being, but this week I have thought of myself differently- as a woman, and what being a woman means to my work, family, academics, and life in general. A number of women have come to my mind, and one of them is Michelle Obama, for how could I ignore her $ 4,000 high thigh Balenciaga boots? That’s not enough, because her book ‘Becoming’ was published on November 13 , and had sold 3 million copies by November 30, becoming the best selling book in the US, in 2018. According to Amazon and CNN, the book is already among the “hottest titles of the decade”. I have heard its praises but I haven’t read it, because I’ve been spending some quality time with Sheryl Sandberg’s ‘Lean In; Women, Work, and the Will to Lead’. In case you are wondering who that could be, Wikipedia is here for you. Sheryl believes that women should believe in themselves and aspire to lead. She urges men to support women in the workforce and at home. She encourages women to shake feelings of self doubt, put themselves forward, take risks, choose growth and challenge themselves. Hillary Clinton, A writer on the Huffington post tried to explain why she is not president (yet), “I’ve been watching Hillary for years, and she is always accused of one of two sins—being too strong or not strong enough. This happens to all women leaders. The more power you have, the more visible you are, the higher the pitch of criticism”. She went on, “'Fighting For Us’ is one of the Clinton campaign’s key slogans. A powerful woman fighting for us is an image that simply doesn’t resonate. Our hearts just don’t thrum to the image of a woman fighting. It’s not fair. It’s sexist. But it is true”. Let’s come closer home. The women from opposition parties we refer to as iron women, and for that reason many don't buy their ideologies. Some of them were beaten, despised and called names. They have been through thick and thin. But what is our perception of their leadership? Are we comfortable to be led by women? What is it about women, power and money, that the world cannot tolerate? Author Sheryl Sandberg feared, “women will continue to sacrifice being liked for being successful”. Should it be so? Mauritius, Liberia, Argentina, Ethiopia and recently USA and several other countries have elected women as presidents. Would you vote for a woman to be president? What is right or wrong about a woman being in power? If she makes too much money, does she need permission to spend it, or can she just be that? If she is too educated (what is that by the way?), does that make her ‘not-wife-material’?does she despise the husband? Or does she neglect her role as a wife? If your boss is a woman, does that really make you uncomfortble? These rhetorical questions require answers that we as a society shy away from.