IN its quest to provide easy and convenient banking services to its customers, I&M bank has launched a new service dubbed ‘Rafiki Chat Banking’ that allows customers to easily perform their financial services through WhatsApp platform via a mobile phone. The service is one of its kinds in the banking sector that demonstrates the financial institution’s promise to deliver innovative services and products such that they have freedom and control over their money. Speaking during the launching ceremony, the Bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Baseer Mohammed said that Rafiki Chat Banking is a revolutionary digital banking service that brings services closer to the customers, and reduces the challenges in banking transactions done onthe- go. He added that the uniqueness of the chat banking service has the ability to transfer funds from one bank to another through WhatsApp. “Our bank has been in the forefront in ensuring we provide our customers with innovative services and products that simplify banking processes by leveraging on new and existing digital technologies,” he said. “Today we are excited to introduce Rafiki Chat Banking to our customers, this service gives customers more freedom to access banking services anywhere and anytime through WhatsApp thus living our promise of ‘We are on your side’,” he pointed out. On her part, the Head of Retail Banking, Ms Lilian Mtali said the service is safe and simple to use and allows already registered customers to perform an array of transactions including internal and external Bank transfers, checking account balance, Mobile banking services and access to mini statements. “We understand that not every time a customer can get time to visit the bank or our ATMs when in need of banking services. Together with our existing digital banking services like i-Click, we have added Rafiki ChatBanking to allow customers to easily access services as they connect to others on WhatsApp,” she said. She further said that with Rafiki Chat Banking service, customers will have to save a mobile number on their smartphones or any smart feature phone that runs WhatsApp and send a short message and then follow the instructions provided by the admin. I&M Bank is a financial services company and later converted to a commercial bank. It evolved from a community financial institution to a publicly listed major regional commercial bank offering a full range of corporate and retail banking services.