TANZANIA Women Lawyers Association (Tawla), in collaboration with three other nongovernmental organisation (NGOs), is implementing a $4m project to end all forms of violence against women and children in the country. Dubbed, Mwanamke Imara, an ambitious project which also aims at ending all forms of discrimination, is implemented in three regions of Kilimanjaro, Mbeya and Njombe, according to Tawla Executive Director Tike Mwambipile. Mwanamke Imara Activity is a $4m-three year project designed under a consortium model and is implemented by four organisations—Tawla (lead), Tanlap, Kwieco and WiLDAF. The project is funded by USAID. In her presentation during the launch of the project held at Dodoma’s Treasury Square recently, project coordinator Mary Richard said the project aimed at ending all forms of violence in targeted regions through improving access to justice. It also aims at amplifying women voices and participation in leadership, decision-making and governance and strengthening women and youth economic groups and enhancing their access to resources and information. “Women and young people need to be aware of their rights and all forms of violence and discrimination, have timely access to justice and empowered economically as well as actively participating in leadership and decision making,’’ noted Ms Richard. In the project, she added, each organisation’s different niche and expertise would be used to effectively implement the project. Tanlap will specifically deal with access to justice, WiLDAF will focus on gender-based violence (GBV), Tawla will deal with women in leadership, while the last component of Women Economic Empowerment will be handled by Kwieco. According to Ms Richard, the activity has three specific objectives which are increasing women and girls’ access to justice on human rights issues (land and property rights, inheritance and gender-based violence) in Mbeya, Njombe and Kilimanjaro. Others are increasing women and young people’s voices and participation in leadership, decision-making processes and governance in three regions as well as strengthening women and youth economic groups by enabling them access to information and national resources.