PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Wednesday changed the death sentences of 256 convicts on death row to life imprisonment as part of the celebrations to mark the 59th anniversary of independence. The President has also reduced sentences of more than 3,000 inmates. The Head of State said that the 256 convicts on death row were lined up for execution in the past five years, but using his presidential power he has decided to reduce their sentences to life imprisonment. The last execution in Tanzania was carried out in 1994. "In the past five years of my leadership, I was supposed to execute 256 convicts who were handed death sentence. However, I could not sign for their death and therefore I am changing their sentences to life imprisonment," Dr Magufuli said in Dodoma during the swearing-in of his new cabinet. He directed the Home Affairs Ministry to work on his decision by observing all the required rules and procedures and ensuring the inmates are engaged in productive activities. "Some of these inmates were sentenced to death for killing two or three people; the law requires the president to execute all 256, who will have committed the worst sin? The one who killed one person or me who would execute all these 256 inmates?" President Magufuli inquired. The Head of State further reduced sentences to 3,316 inmates who were convicted for various offences and directed the Prisons to release those who will qualify for the pardon. "Some of  these inmates  have been convicted for minor offenses  while others are left with only a few days to finish  their  sentences...  based on the recommendations presented  by the  Commissioner General of Prisons  I have agreed  to reduce their sentences, others  must be released under given legal procedures," he said. In 2017, while swearing in Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma, President Magufuli stated clearly that he cannot assent to an execution of the death penalty which is legal in the country. He said that he cannot make that “difficult decision” on the execution of convicted murderers. “I know there are people who are convicted of murder and are waiting for death penalty, but please don’t bring the list to me for decision because I know how difficult it is to execute,” he said. Tanzania’s Penal Code, Cap 16 stipulates the death penalty for serious offenses like murder and treason. The president, however, commended Tanzanians for commemorating an important day for liberation of the country.