AS Tanzania just like any other country in the world readies to celebrate Christmas, Boxing Day and New Year, by family members travelling from upcountry to towns and vice versa to join others, sanity in the transport industry and security must come first. No government that is tasked to be the custodian of its citizens will allow few individuals posing as drivers in the industry to pour blood on the roads, by driving recklessly, just because they want to make several trips and mint extra coins. On the breathe, the government deserves all supports and must act tough without fear or favour against any driver who will take lives of citizens for granted on the roads particularly during these festivities, when many people are travelling. To shed light on this, the Minister of Home Affairs, George Simbachawene deserves praise for daring to name up-country passenger buses that are being accused of contravening traffic rules, and warning the culprits that they should brace for sterner legal actions. Issuing the warning while addressing a news conference at the ministry’s headquarters in Dodoma on Tuesday, as he equally took time to offer explanations on the status of road safety in the country, especially this time when people are preparing for the festive season, the minister’s point was that life is precious and must be preserved. “Stern legal actions will be instituted to all busses that blatantly disregard the Traffic laws, and I will be bold on this directive,” he noted. Mr Simbachawene further said that between January and December, 2020, statistics show that the major causes of accidents were human mistakes, speeding, as well as poor motor vehicle maintenance, something within a driver’s realm to manage. According to a police report released on Monday, the country recorded a total of 1,800 road accidents from January to November, this year where a total of 1,158 deaths and 2,089 injuries were reported. According to the Police Operations and Training Commissioner, Liberatus Sabas in the corresponding period in 2019, a total of 2,722 accidents were recorded and a total of 1,329 deaths occurred on the country’s roads, with 2,717 people escaping with injuries. According to Commissioner Sabas, the 2020 and 2019 statistics differ by 922 accidents, which is equivalent to 33 per cent and that the number of people who died in accidents has dropped by 12.9 per cent. All these statistics show that as citizens, we must support the government by reporting reckless drivers to the relevant authorities, because at the end of the day, they endanger our lives, which have no spare parts.