THE prosecution and defence on Wednesday locked horns on whether suspected drug dealers, Ayubu Kiboko and his wife Pilly Kiboko, should be convicted for drugs trafficking. While State Attorneys Constantine Kakula, Salimu Msemo and Kandit Nasua argued that the prosecution has proved its case against the couple beyond reasonable doubt, Advocate Majura Magafu, for the accused persons, submitted to the contrary. Judge Lilian Mashaka, who is conducting the trial at the High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division in Dar es Salaam, said she will deliver the Court’s judgment on December 14, 2020 after going through the evidence tendered by both parties. In the trial, Kiboko and his wife Pilly are charged with drug trafficking. It is alleged that on May 23, 2018 at Tegeta-Nyuki area within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam, the couple trafficked in Heroin Hydrochloride, which are narcotic drugs, weighing 251.25 grams. Presenting final submissions to support their position, the trial attorneys asked the court to be guided by four issues to determine the matter, including whether the drugs in question were found in the house where the couple was living before their arraignment. The other issues include whether the chain of custody was broken in handling the drugs, what would be the status of the certificate of seizure indicating the items found in the couple’s house and whether the defence evidence given by the accused persons created doubts on the prosecution’s case. It was submitted by the prosecution that the evidence tendered by six witnesses as well as 16 exhibits submitted left no doubts that the drugs, the subject matter of the trial, were seized from the house during the search exercise carried out by officers from Drug Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA). The drugs, according to the state attorneys, were duly identified by prosecution witnesses in court when testifying as the ones retrieved from the house in question and that the two accused persons supported the prosecution’s case that their house was indeed searched. As regarding the question of chain custody of handling the drugs, the prosecutors told the court that prosecution witnesses gave clear accounts how the same were seized, taken to the DCEA offices and wrapped in front of Kiboko and then taken to the office of the chief government chemist for analysis. They submitted that all prosecution witnesses also identified the drugs in court after being produced as exhibits and no cross examination conducted by the defence to discredit their credibility. As regard to the issue of seizure certificate, it was submitted that the same was genuine and was legally prepared. The prosecutors further told the court that the evidence given by the couple was weak, thus could not at any rate shake the prosecution’s case and, hence, creating doubts which could be resolved in their favour. In his submissions, however, Advocate Magafu hit back and forcefully argued with the court to acquit his clients as there was no iota of evidence produced by the prosecution to prove the fact that the couple jointly committed the offence charged. According to him, none of the prosecution’s witnesses produced evidence to substantiate that the couple had common intention of committing the offence. He referred to the testimony that the DCEA had received intelligence information that the accused persons were dealing in narcotic drugs. The advocate told the court that in the country’s jurisprudence, unless supported by any other evidence such testimony remained hearsay, which was not admissible. He further submitted that in order to establish common intention there must be conspiracy involving the person involved. Mr Magafu submitted that none of the prosecution witnesses gave evidence to show the existence of such a mission. As regarding to the chain of custody of the drugs, the advocate told the court that the evidence given indicated such exhibit was mishandled He submitted that though some prosecution witnesses had admitted that there was an exhibit register which indicated the handling of the exhibits in question, the register was not produced in court to clear clouds surrounding the matter. The advocate told the court that the seizure certificate was not a genuine document, as it bore signatures on the first page, which indicated no drugs were seized in the house, while the second page, which lists the drugs in question, was not signed by any of the parties involved in the search.