SATURDAY, 19th December 2020 will remain etched into the memory of many entertainment lovers, more so University students. After an entire year of sweating, entertainment innovators came up with Extra Uni Bash’, a music extravaganza that was a welcome refresher for the fatigued students. The bash was supported by various companies and brands including the new Guinness Smooth beer. Great music took the air as DJ Zero, DJ Sinyorita, DJ D’Ommy and many other highprofile DJs regaled the students with fantastic beats that resonated well with the mood of the students who were hungry for entertainment. The concert that was well-attended brought the power of music in bringing people together and providing the muchneeded cathartic relief. The youthful Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Innocent Bashungwa who graced the event could not hide his feelings. In a joyous and excited mood, he thanked the organisers and sponsors including the new Guinness Smooth for organising such an enthralling bonanza. “Kudos to the innovators and partner sponsors for this wonderful concert. I know the concert specifically targets the youth and as a young man, am also very glad to be part of this great event. Organizing such an event is not a simple task and I once again commend all those who thought of this event,” Bashungwa said. The minister told the concert attendees that Bongo Flava, which is the most popular music among young people in Tanzania, was growing exponentially in the country and as well as spreading beyond the country’s boarders, gaining similar popularity in neighboring countries such as Kenya and Uganda. “Bongo Flava music is now part of our culture and thousands of youths are making their living out of this music. I would like to express my sincere appreciation once again to all the sponsors for extending their generous support to this event; their investment is firing up the popularity of Bongo Fleva genre across the region and beyond,” he added. He reaffirmed the government’s commitment to work with other stakeholders in raising the bar of Bongo Flava music to enable more youths to benefit from it and also get international recognition. “We will work with other stakeholders and organise high profile concerts that meet international standards in order to popularise our music globally,” Bashungwa promised. With Guinness Smooth being the official alcoholic drink at the bash the event saw such popular artistes like Weusi, Bill Nas, Lulu Diva who is also Guinness Smooth brand ambassador taking to the stage and ensuring the revelers went frenzy with excitement. Similarly, the upcoming artistes were also given an opportunity to display their skills. Commenting on Guinness Smooth’s sponsorship to the event, Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL)’s Innovation Manager, Bertha Vedastus said Guinness Smooth particularly targeted youthful partakers, a major reason as to why it was proud to be part of the event that brought the youth together. “The new Guinness Smooth is designed for the youth and you can hardly separate youngsters from music. Music is also an ideal recruitment tool. When you want to get to the youth for instance, music is your first point of call as it allows you to be distinctive and credible, which is why we’re here,” Bertha explained. According to Bertha, Guinness Smooth is the latest addition to the Guinness family. It has a distinctively smooth and refreshing taste with the perfect balance of flavours that are ideal for enjoyment while catching up with friends. The new drink has all the refreshments of a stout, with the fine character of Guinness. Crafted with Tanzanian consumers in mind, Guinness Smooth is a new expression of Guinness developed by Guinness master brewers, local and international, to deliver an exciting and stand out beer that is perfect for social occasions. “Guinness has a long tradition of brewing extraordinary beers. Guinness Smooth continues our commitment to bringing consumers flavourful beers they can enjoy on all occasions. Therefore, for something delightful and refreshing to enjoy when catching up with friends, be refreshed by Guinness Smooth,” she enthused.