From nail ridges to eye twitches and a bloated stomach, an expert explains that our bodies are on a never ending mission to communicate with us on the outside, what’s going on in the inside. But sometimes these signs are too subtle or we don’t pay them enough attention until they become something more serious. In a piece for Healthista, a nutritionist has revealed how to read some of the subtle health messages your body is trying to send you and become your own body whisperer. Bloated tummy Who hasn’t suffered from puffer fish syndrome at some point in their lives? A staggering 70 per cent of us have reported suffering from regular bloating. A bloated tummy is that uncomfortable sensation you get when your stomach feels stretched and puffy. In essence, this happens when your stomach is full of food, fluid or gas. Your body is basically trying to tell you are not digesting your food properly or that you have a food allergy or intolerance such as to wheat or lactose. Other common causes of bloating include hormonal issues, candida, constipation, too much sugar or booze, stress, dysbiosis (an imbalance between the good and bad bacteria in our digestive tract) or IBS,’ said nutritionist Rick Hay. Consuming large meals, however healthy they may be, can themselves cause bloating from the sheer volume. Simply eating too much at once can also dilute down the acid in our stomach, rendering it unable to start breaking down the food efficiently. Furthermore, enzymes that act optimally at a lower, more acidic PH cannot function as well which means that food remains only partially digested and needs to be broken down further. This is usually done by bacteria in the gut and the consequent fermentation process results in the release of gases that may also cause bloating. Certain sugars from foods can also cause bloating. Called Fermentable Oligosaccharides, Disaccharides, Monosaccharaides and Polyols or FODMAPs for short do this through the release of gases from fermentation. Foods high in FODMAPS include broccoli, cauliflower, and artificial sweeteners such as maltitol, sorbitol, xylitol as well as beans and pulses. Various studies have shown that diets rich in FODMAPs are more likely to cause symptoms associated with IBS including bloating. Red inflamed skin and acne According to a 2013 review, the causes of skin inflammation and acne are many and will vary from person to person. However, the most common causes are often hormone related. The review explains that testosterone is the hormone that promotes acne the most so acne is a big issue for males and teenage boys in particular. But women also tend to get acne flare ups about one week before their menstruation starts due to a dip in estrogen levels which, funnily enough, prevent the development of acne. Women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) tend to have an imbalance of testosterone and that’s why recurrent acne (along with weight gain around the middle and excess facial hair) is one of the leading symptoms of PCOS. “When you get acne, your body may also be trying to alert you to an underlying hormonal or digestive disturbance,” said Mr Hay. Adding that, “It could also be a result of liver imbalance, poor diet especially if you eat too much carbohydrate, stress and allergies amongst other things.” Red inflamed acne with a white discharge is usually indicative of excess carbohydrate consumption and bacterial overgrowth. “The pus is the result of your immune system trying to fend itself off the bacterial infection,” Mr Hay added. During this battle, immune system cells sacrifice themselves to keep the infection at bay and the result is a white discharge or pimple. The redness and local swelling itself are caused by proinflammatory chemicals released by the body that dilate local blood vessels so that more of these soldier cells are recruited to the area to fight the incoming invaders. White coating on the tongue A thin white coating on the tongue can be indicative of digestive disturbances such as micro biome imbalance, iron or B vitamin deficiency and possibly diabetes. “In the case of iron and vitamin B deficiency it is quite likely you will be feeling constantly tired,” Mr Hay said. Thick, white spots on the tongue that look like pus are more likely to be oral thrush (a yeast infection), leukoplakia (white patches inside the mouth or on the tongue and gums especially common in smokers and those who use smokeless tobacco), or oral lichen planus (a non-infectious itchy white rash that can affect many parts of the body including the inside of the mouth). In the case of lichen planus it is important to keep it monitored by a medical professional. Vertical and horizontal nail ridges Healthy looking nails should be smooth, curved, with a shine to them and have no spots. The thing about nails is that they can cause potentially serious self-image and self-esteem harm. Nail ridges themselves are nothing to be overly concerned about as far as physical health goes but if untreated, they can pose a social problem. “That is not to say, however, that you shouldn’t have them checked out by your GP just to be on the safe side,” Mr Hay said. Vertical ridges, not horizontal can be a sign of anemia or even rheumatoid arthritis, Medical News Today reports. Cold sores and mouth ulcers “Okay, let’s get our facts straight first, cold sores and mouth ulcers are not the same thing,” Mr Hay said. For starters, mouth ulcers are found on the inside of the mouth on the gums, tongue and inner cheeks whereas cold sores develop on the outside on the lips. Most importantly, whilst mouth ulcers are indicative of a weakening immune system, they are non-contagious. Cold sores on the other hand are a manifestation of a dormant viral infection which flares up whenever our immune system becomes compromised for whatever reason. The take home message here is that mouth ulcers and cold sores are a red alert for a compromised immune system. Your body is telling, or rather showing you that your immune system is in need of some TLC. They often start popping up as the weather gets colder and in times of stress both of which can weaken our body’s innate protective systems. Yellowing of the eyes and or skin “It is important to distinguish the significance of yellowing of the eyes versus yellowing of the skin,” Mr Hay added. Whereas yellowing of the skin may be attributed to an excess intake of beta carotene, vitamin A and vitamin C, in which case it usually poses no threat, yellowing of the eyes is usually observed in people whose livers may be in trouble. In this case, seek medical advice as soon as possible, the earlier the problem is diagnosed, the better the prognosis. Jaundice, the yellow discoloration itself, occurs when a compound called bilirubin builds up in the body. The yellowing of the skin or eyes can be symptomatic of something more serious but they are all fundamentally either directly or indirectly related to the health status of the liver.