THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Innocent Bashungwa has applauded the exemplary work done by Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN), saying the company has proven to be among the national icons. “TSN is one of the government organisations that perform a good job, President John Magufuli is very proud of the company. A good example is the role played by the organisation in the just ended election… you demonstrated patriotism of the highest level, it is indeed the national pride” he said. Accompanied by his Deputy, Abdallah Ulega and the Permanent Secretary Dr Hassan Abbasi, the minister visited the company’s headquarters in Dar es Salaam yesterday. He stressed that in a few years to come TSN will be revamped and rebranded to a better version it can be, with the potential it has as the national leading newspaper. The minister noted that TSN and its staff have been doing a great job, asking them to push more to meet the market demand. “Expand your horizon on the business aspect, there are plenty of opportunities on various synergies that can be looked into, such as involving the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government in printing exercise books,” he reiterated. Mr Bashungwa affirmed the ministry’s full support to TSN activities, saying, “My office is open for you and all other stakeholders in the sector. Your efforts and creativity is an asset to the nation,” he noted. On the other hand, the Deputy Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Mr Abdallah Ulega applauded the company for making good progress in the digital media. He said the world is changing and that media companies need to cope with technological waves. Nevertheless, he advised the digital team to incorporate various contents including entertainment and other social aspects that surround the communities so as to win more people and persuade them to visit TSN’s digital sites. “Come up with more creative and innovative contents, basing on various issues not hard news alone; without breaking your principles. The world is changing so fast and we need to adapt with the shifting technology as well,” he stressed. The TSN Acting Managing Editor Ms Tuma Abdallah thanked the minister and his delegates for their promising support and assured to put up more efforts in ensuring TSN achieves the goals in line with the government visions. “We have had great achievements through the years, despite the various challenges we have experienced like the poor quality of the printing system which needs to be repaired; however this did not stop us from becoming the best we can be,” she stated. Earlier, the minister and his delegation visited Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC), where they called for the corporation to focus on accessing overseas markets; as well as to invest more on innovation and creativity.