POLICE in Arusha have arrested nine people, including three fellow Police Officers for allegedly being involved in corrupt practices. They are alleged to have solicited and asked for some 30m/- as bribe from a famous businessman, Mr Sammy Mollel, the Director of Gem and Rock Venture based in Arusha. Those behind bars included a Tanzanite businessman, Lucas Mdeme (46), with fresh charges that they were also involved in tax evasion and running a clandestine tanzanite trade contravening set laws and rules in the country. Arusha Regional Police Commander (RPC) Salim Hamduni said that the suspects were arrested at Gem and Rock Venture offices at Pangani Ward in the city. Others being held are Police Officers G.5134 DC Heavenlinght Mushi from Intelligence Unit, Kinondoni Region, H 1021 PC Byrton Murumbe from Dodoma Region and H.125 D/C Gasper Paul from Intelligence Unit at Police Headquarters, Dodoma. The list included Makole, who is a businessman in Dodoma, Shabani Benson (40), an Ilboru resident, Leonia Joseph (40) and Gem and Rock Venture staff, Joseph Chacha (43), who resides at Ilboru, Arusha. Others were named as Omary Mario (43), a businessman who resides at Olorien, Arusha, Nelson Lyimo (58), who is a businessman and resident of Kimandolu, Arusha and Lucas Mdeme (46), a tanzanite trader and manager with Crown Lapidary in Arusha, who sells minerals within and outside the country. The charged stated that the nine-man team was forcing Mr Mollel who is also the National Chairperson of Tanzania Minerals Association (TAMIDA) to give them the amount so that they help him and his company in some challenges; he is facing in business and tax issues. RPC Hamduni noted that Mr Mollel was asked to first give them 10m/- as advance payment and later pay the remaining amount, something that the police officers agreed. He said the cops later went to Mr Mollel’s offices by vehicle without realising that he had already set a trap for their arrests. While investigation is still ongoing, the Police Force has already started issuing disciplinary measures to the errant officers with a note that the matter will later be transferred to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for further auction.