BUGANDO Medical Centre (BMC) has commemorated International Day of Persons with Disabilities by doing various activities, including issuing over 1,000 free health insurance cards to needy children. The hospital conducted health check-ups to people with various disabilities and children aged 0-16 years from poor families before offering them free insurance cards through the hospital’s Social Welfare Department. Social Welfare Officer Daudi Makumucha told the ‘Daily News’: “The cards are those under ‘Totoa’ insurance, a product of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), where a parent pays 50,400/- per child per year. The government is keen on children’s welfare, so there is no need to miss health services simply because they come from poor families and are with disabilities.” He further clarified that ‘Totoa’ had been in place for sometime, but the cards were for the hospital to show its sympathy, care and love to children with disabilities on such a specific international event. According to him, ‘Totoa’ services are meant to help children with disabilities from poor families to benefit free health services. When asked how the department identified needy children Mr Makumucha said:”We have been communicating with local government leaders to help, starting with families which have been benefiting from Tanzania Social Action Fund (Tasaf) poverty reduction projects.” He said just being a Tasaf member told a lot about a family’s financial status. For families which have not yet been reached by Tasaf projects, local leaders will continue identifying them so that they too may access such projects. International Day of Persons with Disabilities Coordinator, Dr Juma Juma from the Prosthetics and Orthoses Department said most people with disabilities were found with bone complications, with adults being offered direct treatment without referrals from other hospitals. He clarified that usually any person who visited BMC for treatment without being referred was categorised as a private patient, who must pay for services. “But persons with disabilities are today celebrating their day. The hospital celebrates with them through offering free health testing and instant treatment. Most of them have bone problems because physical disabilities are related to bone complexities,” said Dr Juma.