THE Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango has advised the Institute of Finance Management (IFM) to monitor its graduates every year to see how they are being received in the job market, which will help to improve the college’s curriculum. The minister made the call on Friday during the 7th graduation for IFM Mwanza Campus, saying that improving the college’s curriculum means producing experts in line with the market demand. “Just monitor all those in official and self-employment who are in production and important service areas. You should agree with me that to run the college, we should consider economic and societal changes so as to bring in prosperity to the nation and our college,” advised Dr Mpango. According to him, history shows that it was significant investment in human resources that enabled rapid economic growth in various countries in the world. Thus, he added, continuation of Tanzania’s economic growth will depend on, among other things, to what extent efforts will continue to be invested in education, mostly in science, technology and innovation. “Good luck, many Tanzanians recognise the importance of education, which is the reason behind increase in the number of students in higher learning institutions every year. We are responsible to continue offering standard education so as to meet the market requirements and enable IFM to provide positive contribution on economic development,” insisted the minister. He advised the graduates to brainstorm and engage in various self- income generating activities, instead of waiting for public employment opportunities. He said the government makes efforts to employ the graduates in various professions, but cannot hire all graduates who get in the job market every year, hence, entrepreneurship skills are of paramount importance for expansion of self-employment' scope. “The government therefore emphasises on the setting of a conducive learning environment, as an important capital to enable graduates access the labour market and self-employment. IFM Principal, Prof Tadeo Satta, commented that the Institute continues offering various courses at different levels, which include Insurance, Tax, Bank, Accounts, Information technology and Computer science, among other professions, and has been producing best experts with international standards. He said that IFM Mwanza Campus has been rapidly expanding, where there were only two courses at the beginning, namely Diploma in Finance and Banking, as well as (Diploma) in Accounts, but currently offers over 11 courses. “We are thankful that you and the whole ministry team has provided us with assistance and directives to enable the college continue implementing its responsibilities,” said the IFM boss. 