TAIFA Stars Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije has unveiled a 30-man squad tailor made for African Nations Championship (CHAN) leaving out on-form defender Mohamed Hussein and custodian Metacha Mnata. Hussein has done well this season for Simba in the club’s local and international tournaments most notably the CAF Champions League while Mnata has been outstanding between the posts and his countless daring saves helped Young Africans to end the first round of the league unbeaten after playing 17 games. The squad picked for CHAN finals will pitch a camp for a build up friendly match with Democratic Republic of Congo on January 1st, 2021. There are a number of surprise packages this time, but the most notable ones are the upcoming stars from Tanzania U-17 and U-20 teams. Omari Omari who played the National U-17 that won a ticket to play in CHAN finals is the youngest entry in the team. Others are Samwel Jackson from Ihefu U-20 team and Paschal Gaudence who plays for Azam U-20 team. Both players served National U-20 team, Ngorongoro Heroes and helped the team to qualify for CHAN Finals in Mauritania in 2021. Players like Edward Manyama, Lucas Kikoti and Carlos Protas from Namungo, Abdultwalib Msheri from Mtibwa Sugar also join the list of the surprise package. Biashara United goalie Dan Mgore joins the popular and vast experienced players like goalie Juma Kaseja and Aishi Manula to guard the posts. The list of players has Aishi Manula (Simba), Juma Kaseja (KMC) and Dan Mgore (Biashara United) as goalkeepers. Defenders include Abdultwalib Msheri (Mtibwa Sugar), Shomari Kapombe(Simba), Israel Mwenda(KMC), Edward Manyama(Namungo), Kassim Mustafa, Bakari Mwamnyeto(Yanga), Aggrey Morris(Azam), Erasto Nyoni(Simba) and Carlos Protas (Namungo). Midfielders are Saidi Ndemla(Simba), Baraka Majogoro( Mtibwa Sugar), Yusuf Mhilu(Kagera Sugar), Ayub Lyanga(Azam), Feisal Salum(Yanga) and Rajab Athumani(Gwambina). Strikers who have been picked include Ditram Nchimbi(Yanga), John Bocco(Simba), Deus Kaseke(Yanga), Lucas Kikoti(Namungo), Farid Mussa(Yanga), Adam Adam (JKT Tanzania), Dickson Job(Mtibwa Sugar), Abdulrazack Hamza( Mbeya City), Khelfinnie Salum (U-20 Azam), Samwel Jackson ( U-20 Ihefu), Omari Omari (U-17) and Paschal Gaudence( U-20 Azam).