WEIGH Measures Agency (WMA) has certified affordable locally-made weighing machines which many Tanzanians can afford to buy for their businesses. This was said at the weekend in Dar es Salaam by WMA Acting Chief Executive Officer Stella Kahwa, when speaking during the industrial exhibition for local produce at Mwalimu Julius Nyerere grounds. She said the weighing machines were made by local raw materials and were cheaper than those imported. “The weighing machines are made considering international standards. They are cheaper and available so we would like to tell Tanzanians that these are their products they have to support their fellow Tanzanians,” she said. In another development, the acting CEO said Tanzanians had also innovated a fuel pump measurement which will help fuel buyers to get exactly what they have paid for when buying fuel. “A fuel pump has its special measurements so that buyers and sellers get exactly what they deserve. For example, if you pay for 20 litres of fuel it must be exact 20 litres not less or more than that of what you have paid. So, every fuel seller is required to have such a tool,” she said. She said in past years, fuel sellers used to import such a kind of tool and used foreign currency, but now it has been made simple by their fellow Tanzanians and there is no need to import such facilities. She said WMA was an active member of International Bureau of Weights and Measurements, adding that they had been taking several recommendations from the organisation and implement them to set national and international standards. She said WMA had been collaborating with Small Industries Company (Sido) to train small entrepreneurs in how they could improve their packaging to meet international standards. “For example, in the past honey sellers used to sell by volume, but after training they use proper measurements. That’s why if you visit them today they will tell you this is one or two kilogrammes. We have tried and will continue educating them,” she said “We are not going to relax, but continue educating them because entrepreneurs increase day by day and we will do that until Tanzania is declared the world number one business destination,” she said.