The Political Basis of FOCAC Founded on Solidarity for the Liberation of Africa DURING the opening ceremony of the 2018 FOCAC Summit, there were three distinguished speakers who delivered key messages on behalf of the forum partners to set the tone for dialogue of the Summit. President Xi Jinping speaking on behalf of the People’s Republic of China, reiterated the principles that guide and underpin the steady building of China-Africa cooperation for mutual benefit; and further declared the firm intent of China to launch eight new cooperative initiatives. In that regard, President Xi stated that China was ready to implement the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as a new platform for international cooperation and China’s contribution to the shared future of mankind. Responding on behalf of Africa with a succinct statement in his capacity as Chairman of the Africa Union (AU), President Paul Kagame of Rwanda remarked that, FOCAC is a powerful platform of cooperation aligned to the AU 2063 Vision. He further stated that China’s actions have demonstrated that the challenges of Africa are an opportunity for investment and China’s engagement with Africa has been transformational. Therefore, the expanded cooperation plan fully reflects China’s sincerity and commitment. Earlier on, Co-Chairman of the Summit, President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa recalled the longtime China- Africa solidarity, friendship, partnership and cooperation with reference to 1964 when Premier Zhou Enlai of China visited Africa and declared the principles of cooperation that guide the engagement and underpin the partnership structure of FOCAC. In fact, one could reach back further into the past and refer to the initial engagement of China in solidarity with Africa at the Bandung Conference that was held in 1955 to oppose colonialism and neo-colonialism, as well as to promote Afro-Asian political, economic and cultural cooperation. Going Forward with China-Africa Symbiotic Development Cooperation after Two Decades of FOCAC in Considering the Opportunities The poverty of Africa is not so much about “income deprivation” – although, that is indeed one measure – but rather, it is about “capacity deprivation”. Africa needs to create wealth through “sustainable industrialization” for the benefit of her people by exploiting its abundant endowment of human and natural resources. Indeed, there lies the obvious opportunity of China-Africa cooperation by way of collaboration in relocating excess industrial capacity from China to Africa with the intent to achieve equitable win-win outcomes. China has already begun to implement BRI as the new platform of international cooperation. In that regard, there is an opportunity to create a symbiotic partnership of China’s BRI with Southern African Development Community (SADC) initiatives of transborder regional “Development Corridors” and “Spatial Development Initiatives” (SDI) via the envisaged 21st Century Maritime Silk Road. Critical FOCAC Challenges to Progress in Development There are transient critical progress challenges to FOCAC. The first challenge is the critical issue of resource mobilization and deployment to enable realization of the basic development aspirations of Africa to build economic services infrastructure, productive sectors, trade development and facilitation, as well as the provision of utilities and the delivery of social services. Given the substantial resource requirements to fund the development initiatives of Africa and the risk of creating unsustainable indebtedness of Africa to China and to the rest of the world, FOCAC may provide the opportunity for innovative approaches of creating novel financial architecture to fund the development of Africa. The second challenge lies in the fact that Africa is a continent of 54 sovereign states with diverse political orientation, economic development and social composition. In that regard, even intra-Africa dialogue is challenged by compartmentalization of Africa into pseudo-cultural and lingual colonial heritage divisions of Anglophone, Francophone and Lusophone blocks. Beyond the language barrier, there is the fact that the education, commercial and legal institutions of African countries have retained much of the European heritage from the time of colonial rule, and there is broad acceptance of that heritage and its variations as “best practice”. As a matter of fact, cultural barriers are the major constraints that need to be overcome in order to achieve the desired people-to-people exchanges, being one of the key objectives of the eightpoint cooperation initiatives proclaimed by President Xi Jinping at the 2018 Beijing Summit of FOCAC. Concluding Remarks and the Way Forward FOCAC has been established at a time when there is radical inequality in economic prosperity and technological development between China and Africa. To the point made by President Paul Kagame, the AU Chairman in his address to the 2018 Beijing Summit of FOCAC, it is indeed a good measure of sincerity for China to choose the option of engagement with Africa in its strength of unity of whatever form; rather than exploit its diversity and relative underdevelopment to divide and dominate. Reality is that the entire continent of Africa will neither come to unity nor progress all at once, given the sheer size of the continent and the varied state of resource endowment including population, as well as the different levels of political and socio-economic development of the individual African states. On account of those reasons, initially there is naturally bound to be regional disparity both in the scale, speed and impact of development, even with the best intentions of bringing the positive impact of FOCAC initiatives to all parts of Africa. Therefore, it is suggested that, the existing regional blocks of the East African Community (EAC), the Economic Community of West African States (EOWAS) and SADC should provide the manageable realistic building blocks for development initiatives of Sub-Sahara Africa within the framework of FOCAC. For the way forward, there is urgent need to move from vision of the potential of SADC Development Corridors and SDIs, into action within the auspices of FOCAC, that will create opportunities to produce tangible and measurable outcomes in terms of investments in natural resource exploitation for the industrialization aspirations of SADC, the provision of infrastructure, social services delivery as well as trade development that will be mutually beneficial. In that regard, time is opportune now for China and SADC member states to reach agreement on the mutually desired collaboration, and thereafter to launch a coordinated program of implementation. In collaboration, the two sides should produce a regional implementation plan that links the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road to the mutually agreed projects and programmes that have been approved under the Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP) of SADC. (DISCLAIMER - The author was a member of the Tanzania delegation to the 2018 FOCAC Summit in Beijing. The views recorded in this written contribution are Col. Simbakalia’s personal views and may not necessarily represent official policy or views of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania.)