One thing I thank God about is the fact that I have a very patient wife, although there are times when her patience runs out and I end up suffering the consequences. I am saying this because there are times when I come back home smelling like a faulty brewery, but after her usual tirade, she usually allows me to share the bed with her, although the coughs, grunts and loud sniffing coming from her remains a constant reminder that she is pissed off by the smell coming from my mouth. The worst part for her is when I crawl back home from Zakayo’s Pub and proceed straight to bed, where after a few short seconds the snores that emanate from my open mouth are usually enough to wake up a person who has been confirmed dead by more than ten doctors. But yesterday after my usual night out with the boys, I came back home feeling like I was walking on sand, and the last thing I remembered was asking myself how I made it home before chewing a major blackout under the dining table, and something terrible happened to me…. terrible! Sleeping under the table, however, is nothing to be concerned about by me, because there was a time I slept outside in the garage, although that too can never be compared to the night when I slept peacefully between my two goats in the barn. I remember that night, when mama Boyi, after looking for me everywhere, finally found me sleeping with the two goats, and according to her, the poor creatures looked depressed due to the loud snores coming from….I know she exaggerated the whole issue, because she told me later that the poor creatures looked relieved when she dragged me away. Anyway, what made last night different and terrible is not the fact that I slept in the living room and under the dining table, but the fact that I had a terrible dream, which woke me up in a cold sweat. Let me tell you something, there is nothing as bad as messing up with a man’s ego, and it becomes worse when it happens that the same ego is completely washed out. I was in my second dream, which came after the first one where I was sitting with Donald Trump and I was trying to convince him that he should move to Manzese when he completes his presidency in January. He was shaking his head in agreement when Joe Biden walked in. “Baba Boyi, you know I have been looking for you for a very long time, stop talking to this sore loser and share my table, I want to convince you to become my national adviser on African issues,” he was telling me while he removed a cheque book from his jacket pocket. I was about to sign the cheque which had a lot of zeros in front, but suddenly the dream came to a violent end as another dream took over…… this is the dream that woke me up in a cold sweat. In this funny dream, all the men that I know had mysteriously turned into women, and knowing the way we are, I can assure you that in my dream there was a good number of very ugly women. In this very disturbing dream, I had just woken up after a long night and I felt that I needed to take a pee. I left the bed and headed for the toilet, where I fumbled with my usual pajamas but I could not find the waist line. I got confused when I realized that what I was wearing was not my pajamas, but a pink, sleazy garment which resembled a very feminine nightdress. My head told me that mama Boyi had decided to play a funny joke on me while I was sleeping, but when I passed the bathroom mirror, I applied emergency brakes. What stared at me from the mirror was a very ugly woman with a bald head and sleepy eyes, and I could see traces of a moustache on her upper lip, I decided there and then that I should make a point of doing away with alcohol and start forcing myself to drink juice! But things got further out of hand when in my dream, I realized that the ugly woman who was staring at me in the mirror was actually me, and a closer inspection proved that indeed I had become a woman. I lifted the nightdress and felt like collapsing, because I realized that from that day onward, I would never have the comfort of taking a leak on nearby walls and bushes, and that from now on I was supposed to squat when I felt like taking a leak. The stupid dream did not end there, because a further close inspection proved that apart from having floppy breasts on my chest, I realized that there was a possibility that I was also pregnant, because looking at my bulging tummy, I knew that it was not the result of the frothy liquid and nyama choma I usually swallow at Zakayo’s. As I was still trying to figure out what was going on, I heard someone calling me from the sitting room, and with heavy movement, I went to see who it could be. You can imagine my shock when I saw mama Boyi……but this time she was looking like a serious looking man, wearing one of my favorite suits, and in her hand she was holding some money. “Woman, you are becoming lazy by the day, just because you are pregnant does not mean that you are sick, so stop behaving as if you are the first woman to get pregnant and go to the shop and bring a few beers for me,” she………. he said before slapping me on my flat bum! I took the money and a shopping basket and headed for the shop, and on my way I met a group of women who were sitting outside their house, and as I passed, I heard one of them telling the others how she could not understand men. “Yaani am telling you wanaume wana moyo kweli, just look at that oversized head, and the way she is flat at the back as if someone had passed a hot iron on her behind! Surely how can a sane man sleep with such ugly woman!” she said. The other women laughed loudly, and another one pointed at my spindly legs and said something to the effect that my arms look healthier than my legs………that is when I woke up!! 