BUT being hurt a few times is no reason to give up a lifetime of happiness, all in the name of feeling “safe.” You can have both. You can be with someone who makes your heart race but also puts you at ease. Not everyone is willing to wait to find that, though. Here are signs you settled because you were hurt in the past. Your partner has little to no social life Your partner has no life outside of you. He doesn’t have many other friends. He says he does, but they’re more like ornaments: he only brings them out for special occasions. He doesn’t pursue and nurture a fun, active, vibrant social life outside of the relationship. In other words, you can always count on him to be free when you want companionship. In fact, he does everything with you Your partner does absolutely everything with you, including things like come along on girls’ night or other activities he really shouldn’t be present at. He’s essentially a security blanket at this point. He’s so devoted and loyal, and you just prefer having nearby, everywhere you go. When he can’t come with you, you spend your entire time texting him in a corner. You’re by far the boss here You may not want to admit it, but if it’s true, you know it in your gut: you’re the boss here. What you say goes. Your partner doesn’t have opinions of his own. He doesn’t make demands. You two spend Saturdays doing what you want. If you say you’re upset, he bends over backward to fix it, and never argues with your or stands his ground. People say you’re out of his league People often say that you’re out of his league. It’s rude, but they say it – and a lot. Not necessarily in terms of looks (because that shouldn’t really matter), but personality. They say that you just bring so much more to the table, and are a lot more outgoing than he is. People make a lot of comments about you clearly being the social butterfly in this pairing, and potentially carrying all the weight. Even he says it Even he often says, “You’re too good for me,” “I don’t know why you’re with me,” “You could have any other guy…” and things like that. Even your dude is a bit confused as to what you’re doing with him. It’s pretty clear to him that this relationship holds you back in some way. It’s clear he’s just hanging around as long as you’ll let him. You know he’d never leave you You have no question in your mind that he’d ever leave you. Ever. You don’t think there’s anything you could do that would make him leave you. Even if you cheated. Or even if you were mean to him. You have treated him, at some times, in ways you aren’t proud of. And he didn’t go anywhere. Well, that’s part of the reason you’re with him. But in a healthy relationship, you should know that, if you messed up, you’d risk losing your person. He doesn’t really add to your life If you’re being honest, he doesn’t enhance your life. He doesn’t add diversity to it. He isn’t the yin to your yang. He’s sort of a chameleon. He does what you do and goes where you go. He’s a cushion. He’s a crutch. He’s complimentary to your life. But he doesn’t have his own distinct thing going on that stands out, and adds texture to your world. But he doesn’t cause you troubles, either That’s where he lands. He doesn’t add to your life, but he doesn’t take away from it either. He doesn’t cause you any troubles. You never feel that you are distracted by some fight you two had or some drama going on. You don’t feel…passionate enough about him to ever fight or have drama. So he’s just nice and neutral. You flirt with others You find yourself flirting with others sometimes. Oops. Perhaps the types of guys you used to go for – the types who hurt you. When you have a few drinks, it really comes out. Friends have had to pull you aside and ask, “What the hell are you doing?” It’s your subconscious screaming for help. You compare it to toxic relationships You often compare your relationship to really sh*tty relationships. You’ll talk about couples who yell and fight a lot, are on and off a lot, who are mean to each other, who kind of hate each other, and you’ll say, “Ah. It’s so nice my relationship is nothing like that.” You take a lot of solace in the fact that your relationship is not terrible. But not to great relationships “Not terrible” is the only standard to which you hold your relationship. You never compare it to relationships that are awesome. You never compare it to relationships in which the people are clearly madly in love, grow together, excite each other, and enhance one another’s lives. You don’t compare yours to that because, well, the results would be sad. You’re lagging on moving forward You’ve been stuck in one place for a long time. You’ve been dating forever but won’t move in together. Or you got engaged…three years ago. And never planned a wedding. Or you’ve been living together for five years, but won’t get engaged. The sense of security keeps you right where you are, but there isn’t any excitement to move things forward. You feel very safe but very bored You can confidently say that you feel safe. You feel cared for. You don’t think your partner would ever cheat. You don’t think he’d ever yell at you. He completely and totally supports everything you do. He’s your cheerleader. The stability is there. But…you’re also extremely bored. You treat him like a girlfriend You kind of treat him like your bff. He watches all your favorite rom coms with you and reads celebrity gossip magazines with you and gets pedicures with you. He listens to your drama about your fights with your mom and your other best friend, and he fully engages in the gossip. He’s kind of your puppy dog You often hear, “He’s not your type…” When anybody who knows you well meets him, they say something like, “He’s not really your usual type…” You think that’s good, because your usual type hurts you. But they’re clearly saying it with concern, like, “I don’t see anything that you’d find exciting here…”