EFFORTS by the government to revolutionise provision of education in the country through Information Communication Technology are gathering steam, with latest report indicating that a total of 601 teachers underwent ICT training this week. The training to teachers in ICT is a continuation of the government programme whose implementation kicked off in 2016. Both primary and secondary school teachers from Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar are involved in the programme. The government through the Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF) under the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication is conducting the training that aims at transforming the mode of provision of education to students. In the recent training conducted this week, 297 teachers gathered at the University of Dodoma (UDOM) while 304 others were trained at Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT). Speaking during the closing of the training in Dodoma over the weekend, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Zainabu Chaula said the programme is part of the implementation of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Policy 2003 and Education Policy 2014. The ICT Policy 2003, among other things, seeks to enhance education using ICT. The Policy took note of the fact that lack of a programme for training teachers on computers and other multi-media utilisation was identified as a major reason for slow take up of computer studies in primary and secondary schools. The policy document also recognised the fact that the use of ICT enhances effective delivery of education. However, it admitted that the benefit was only evident in some schools and colleges in urban areas. According to Dr Chaula, both policies encourage the establishment and use of ICT in teaching and learning process in various levels of education in the country. “UCSAF has distributed computer sets to schools. You (teachers) are responsible for ensuring that students are taught how to use them. This is the reason behind this training,” Dr Chaula insisted. UCSAF Chief Executive Officer, Justina Mashiba said the Fund has been availing ICT equipment to public schools, including conducting training to teachers to restore the lost glory of public education institutions. She said since UCSAF started implementing the programme in 2016, a total of 2,213 teachers have undergone ICT training to enable them use the equipment in teaching process. She said the Fund continues to coordinate its efforts in collaboration with the education ministry and local government authorities to enhance the use of ICT in the country, especially in public schools.