AFTER giving fans a deserved Christmas gift of not losing any match in the unfolding season, Young Africans Assistant Coach Juma Mwambusi said the chemistry in the squad is now working. Yanga completed their season’s first round of 17 matches in style after beating debutants Ihefu FC 3-0 at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya on Wednesday to remain glued at the top of the league pile with 43 points. Deus Kaseke, Yacouba Sogne and Feisal Salum contributed one goal each to enable their side reap three crucial points from a difficult venue against a team which is fighting hard to move up from the bottom places on the ladder. Again, it was the Burundian import Saido Ntibazonkiza nicknamed ‘antibiotics’ who made headlines after the match as he assisted two goals to make a tally of three assists in two league matches he has featured for the Jangwani Street based team and has one goal to his name. But, making his assessment after the encounter, Mwambusi noted that teamwork is now being seen in the squad as compared to the past period. “Previously, we used to have problems in terms of creating a good chemistry among players since many of them were playing with each other for the first time. “Due to that, the team was producing slim wins but now, the level of understanding among players has grown to the extent that more goals are now being scored,” he said. Moreover, Mwambusi narrated that the fact that Yanga have not lost any game until this far is a testimony that they are much better than any other team on the table. He therefore lauded his players for once again putting on a spirited fight despite a possible fatigue, as they travelled from Shinyanga, Singida, Arusha and Mbeya on bus, saying winning under such circumstances is something worth applauses. On his part, Ihefu coach Zuberi Katwila revealed that lack of coordination between former and new players they have signed in the mini transfer window was a set back for them. “Generally, it was not an easy game and the three goals we conceded made it tough for us to get back into the contest. All in all, we will not bow down and we are now looking forward to our next match,” he said. Ihefu goalkeeper Deogratius Munishi was among the few experienced players who made their debut for the Mbarali based outfits. The defeat was 10th for Ihefu after playing 17 games and have picked 13 points to sit at 17th slot on the log, hence they need to fight hard during the looming second round of the contest if they want to reappear in the top flight league next season.