THE High Court, Musoma Registry, has ordered the arrest and imprisonment to five years of a Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) official, Proches Kavishe for soliciting and receiving 10m/- bribe. He received the money from two Mwanza-based businessmen, John Zephania and Alphonce Magesa. Judge Zephrine Galeba issued the order after dismissing the appeal that Kavishe had lodged to oppose both conviction of corrupt transaction and the sentence imposed on him by the trial court of either paying 500,000/- fine or get jailed for three years in default of paying the fine in question. The judge reversed not only the sentences given to the TRA officer by the lower court after considering the gravity of the offence committed, but also the order requiring him to pay the 10m/- to the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB). “Instead Mr Proches Kavishe is hereby ordered to pay the said 10m/- directly to John Zephania and Alphonce Magesa. In case the(sum) shall not be paid to (the two businessmen), the latter may, according to law, enforce recovery of this amount from the assets of Kavishe,” he ruled. The judge upheld the sentence of a 500,000/- fine paid to escape the jail term, but he was quick to rule that in addition to such sum paid in compliance with the order of the trial court, Kavishe shall pay another 500,000/- in order to complete the fine of 1m/- provided under the law. He further sentenced Kavishe to five years imprisonment, the term which runs from December 4, 2020, a date of delivery of the judgment. The judge ordered that if the TRA officer would not start the sentence on that day, his custodian sentence would commence from the time of his arrest. Before giving the orders, Judge Galeba pointed out that corruption in the society has grown and become a monster. “It is a killer malady; it is killing the image not only of our nation but also our continent in the face of the international community to the extent of being monitored by foreign states as to our performance. This is shameful,” he said. According to him, courts should refuse to hand down lenient punishment and seek to impose the maximum possible punishments when a person in public office is found guilty and convicted of corruption or related offences. He pointed out that the vice is not only forbidden and outlawed by statute, but the same is also abominated and cursed by scripture. The judge said that corruption is not something to massage, to babysit, to play around with or to laugh at. “It is an enemy that deserves to be hit hard, crushed and smashed into nothingness if we are to restore a society of complete integrity with moral principles and values. It is the holding of this court that corruption is not one of the offences in respect of which courts may exercise lenience,” he said. On April 1, 2018, two Tanzanian businessmen, John Zephania and Alphonce Magesa, with businesses at Mwanza Central Market were travelling by road from Nairobi to Mwanza in two motor trucks with merchandise for replenishing their commercial outlets in Mwanza. At around 21:30 hours when they approached Mara River bank and reached Kirumi road block at the bridge, their travel was intercepted and they were ordered to pull over by three government officials who were in a private car. The officers in the car were Kavishe, an employee of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and two police officers. According to the prosecution, the three officials demanded 40m/- in corruption from the two businessmen, otherwise, the motor trucks would not be permitted to leave for Mwanza. At around 23.30 hours, as neither did the duo have that amount of money nor were ready to corrupt their aggressors, they were ordered by the officers to drive the Lorries from Kirumi roadblock to Musoma town direction. Before they were to get to Musoma, the businessmen were ordered to pull over and park the Lorries at Lake Oil Petrol Station in Bweri, a suburb of Musoma town where the Lorries with the merchandise were handed over to the security guards of the fuel station.