SIMBA welcome rejuvenated Ihefu at the Benjamin Mkapa stadium in Dar es Salaam, their first Premier League match after their away CAF Champions League match against FC Platinum of Zimbabwe last week. The match against Ihefu is one of the club’s drills ahead of their must-win return leg tie with the Zimbabweans. Simba lost 1-0 in the first leg match staged in Harare, thus playing against Ihefu, gives Simba an opportunity to test the weapon for Platinum destruction. Angered by the away loss, Simba were merciless last Sunday when they clobbered Majimaji 5-0 in the Azam Federation Cup for season 2020/21. Apart from their Sunday victory, Simba fought well and collected four victories and one draw in their last five past games. They have pocketed wins against Kinondoni Municipal Council who they beat 1-0, Mbeya 1-0, Police Tanzania 2-0 and Coastal Union 7-0. They drew 1-1 with their traditional rivals, Young African. Simba will look forward to securing victory today so to reduce the points’ gap with the leaders Yanga, who are three matches ahead of them. Simba, who have so far collected 32 points in 14 games are still second-placed below Yanga, who have collected 43 points at the helm from 17-game outings. Thus in case Simba win all three matches of the first round, they will climax the round two points less than the leaders. On their side Ihefu have won only two matches drew once and lost twice in their last five games they have played. They have successfully beaten KMC 1-0 and Kagera Sugar 2-1, but lost twice to Yanga and Dodoma Jiji. They drew 1-1 with JKT Tanzania. For Ihefu they will be looking to use match as their part of the campaign to regain a winning run. Ihefu, who have signed Deogratius Munishi are keen to use Simba match as a stepping stone to relegation safety as they are still at the danger zone. Ihefu are positioned second from the bottom tied in points with Mbeya City but superior by one goal. Meanwhile, Simba squad will miss the services of their midfielder dynamo Jonas Mkude who have been suspended by the club’s management due to indiscipline. Mkude’s suspension was made known to the public through Simba’s official social media accounts right after their victory over Maji Maji in the Azam Sports Federation Cup on Sunday where they won 5-0. “We regret to inform our members and fans that always were the best for us, of Simba Sports Club that Jonas Mkude has been temporarily suspended.”