CAF Confederation Cup envoys Namungo leave no stone unturned as they prepare to take on Sudan’s Al Rabita FC in the second leg at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. Namungo have been blessed to play both legs of the preliminary round at home due to Covid-19 threat in South Sudan where the reverse leg was to be played. The development is therefore similar to killing two birds using one stone by Namungo as they already have a three goals advantage they scored in the first leg match at the same venue last Saturday. However, despite seemingly dominating the first leg encounter, Namungo have also been cautioned not to think that the game is over as football has got teasing results sometimes. Speaking on Friday, Namungo Information Officer Kindamba Namlia said they will approach the match without looking at the results they stamped in their previous duel. “Until now, I can say our preparations are 100 per cent but, as you know, anything in football can happen that is why we do not take the next match for granted,” he said. He added that the incumbent coach Hemedi Morocco has been training hard his charges on how to score more goals from lots of chances they create in a particular game. “After the past match, the coach complained about lack of efficiency when it comes to netting goals and so far, he has worked a lot on that area in order to score more goals than we did in the previous tie,” he said. He however elaborated that many people are considering Al Rabita as an easy team to beat, saying that was seen because Namungo were a better side on the day. “We consider them (Al Rabita) as our opponent we need to defeat to sail through to the other side of the competition. They are winners of Federation Cup in their country as such, they are not as simple as many people see them,” he said. A brace by Steve Sey and a second half goal by substitute Shiza Kichuya were enough for Namungo to put on feet into the next stage of the contest in which they are competing for the first time. Most people have banked on Namungo to outclass the Sudan side and penetrate further into the lucrative football competition basing on the performance they displayed in the first leg battle.