MSEMA kweli ni mpenzi wa Mungu, we all have heard that, and as I always say, I will always say the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me God! You see, in the early days, life was so simple, and the complications that we experience today did not exist, maisha yalikua hayasumbui, tuliishi vizuri sana. There are people who are against the speed we experience in technology, yaani maisha yanabadilika kwa kasi mno, and for those of us who were born during the era of using land line telephones, then you will know what I am talking about. Those days you could give someone an appointment one month prior, and on the material day you will find that person at the agreed place, right on time, nawaambia ukweli. “Tukutane maskani ijumaa saa saba,” you could tell someone, and without having to remind them, they will be there that day, because they remember the appointment. Nowadays with all this technology, you can tell someone to meet you the next day, and you remind him or her in the morning, but they can still disappoint you and fail to appear… for those of you who know what I am talking about can say Amen. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I am directing my attention towards parents, wazazi wa kizazi kipya, vis-à-vis the old school parents who raised me and most of us. For those of you who were raised in the early days, then you will know how corporal punishment was the order of the day, and to make matters worse, the old saying mtoto ni mali ya kijiji was very effective. Those were the days when your mother could unleash all her fury, hitting you as if her life depended on it simply because you had the audacity of sitting down when she was addressing you, yaani anakutandika until you start questioning whether she is your real biological mother. I remember a time when my mother….my own mother, nearly dispatched me to my maker at a very tender age simply because I was ogling a visitor as he sipped his cold soda…….kiukweli nilitandikwa, and it was at that time when I discovered that a human body can practically bounce on concrete. And to make matters worse, she gave me a second round of beating for the cardinal sin of crying while I was beaten…… I think that was the time I started hating soda altogether, nikiiona soda tu mwili unauma, sio matani! With all this discipline being meted on us, still there existed a few people we termed as ‘Bad elements’ of the society, watu ambao walishindikana kwenye jamii, who ended up becoming petty to major criminals. Usipofunzwa na wazazi utafunzwa na ulimwengu, we all have heard of that saying, which means that in case parents became relaxed in dishing out discipline to their children, then the world would welcome them with open arms. To say the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, most parents nowadays are messing up big time in raising their children, and before you start looking at me as if I am a prophet of doom from another planet, let me explain why. Kuna watu kusema ukweli wanalea watoto wao kama mayai, they handle their children with kid’s gloves, believing that it is love…… let me burst your bubble, you are raising a future generation of miscreants. You visit someone at home, and you observe the way they handle their children, and you are left to wonder what they think, because to say the truth, it is pathetic. “Sitaki watoto wangu wapate shida nilizopata mimi,” someone will tell you in their defence……. The hardships that you went through are the reason you are the person you are today. I am not saying that we should not love our children, far from it, what I am saying is, try to instill discipline in your children, because the old folks were not stupid when they said spare the rod and spoil the child. Parents are nowadays solving their children’s challenges, believing that they will be loved in return, hivi niwaulize, what foundation are you laying for your child? When I was growing up, our parents went through a hard time trying to make us return home in the evening, while nowadays parents are trying to do their best to get their children to go out and play, watoto wanachezea simu tu. Hivi do you know the things these children go through in their phones? We love technology, but let me assure you, this same technology will ruin our future one day. I once visited a friend of mine who has two children, a ten-year-old boy and a sixyear- old girl, and I can assure you the children are a moving disaster, yaani ni watundu hatari! From the time I entered the house the boy was busy trying to snatch my glasses from my face, while the girl was looking at me as if I was her worst enemy, nilipata shida sana. When I tried to shield my glasses from the rowdy boy, he let out a blood curdling scream that almost made me jump out of my skin, and all the father could say was… “Junior stop…” nilitamani waniache nako dakika tano tu! As parents, we must realise that children are in the process of becoming civilised, therefore our job is to civilise them, that is, teach them how to behave appropriately within the society of human beings, mtakuja kunishukuru baadae, nawaambia kweli. Letting your children have anything they want can cause children to get used to their parents giving into their every whim, and as a result they end up thinking they can have anything they want, and in the end they become selfish, superficial tyrants, mkichukia sawa tu!