THE newly-signed midfielder; Thadeo Lwanga goes for the first Premier League test today when his club Simba faces KMC at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. According to the press statement released by Simba the Ugandan import will be on the ground to make his debut for the Premier League’s defending champions against hardfighting Kinondoni-based side. “This is because the transfer window is open since December 15th ; thus Simba will have the opportunity to use Lwanga in the match and the forthcoming CAF Champions League match against FC Platinum of Zimbabwe. Lwanga is a free player, after completing his contract with Egyptian Premier League club, Tanta Sport.” “He has been signed to replace Gerson Fraga who recently underwent knee surgery due to injuries he picked earlier this season. Fraga will be out of action for more than six months so he was allowed to return to Brazil to oversee his treatment.” The today’s game is expected to be remarkable and fierce as both teams have had the best performance since the beginning of the league. Simba are currently placed second on the log with 29 points from 13- game outings. They are nine points behind the leaders and traditional rivals Young Africans who reaped 37 points from 15 games. Simba will use the match to further polish the squad for crucial CAF Chmapions League match against FC Platinum on December 22nd . Incase Simba beat KMC, they will extend point margin over the third-placed Azam and reduce gap with Yanga. Simba’s opponent today, KMC are placed fifth after pocketing 21 points after playing 13 games. Simba will step in the stadium with confidence after recording wins in their recent games. Simba have posted four victories and one draw in their last five matches of the league from November to December. They have hauled 13 points out of targeted 15 points. The only draw they have pocketed was 1-1 against Young Africans while they enjoyed a massive victory against Kagera Sugar, Coastal Union, Police Tanzania and the slim 1-0 win over Mbeya City at Sokoine stadium last weekend . Their biggest victory of the season was 7-0, stamped in Arusha where they played Coastal Union. In that match their skipper John Bocco walked off the pitch with a glistering hat- trick. KMC on their side, have pocketed two victories in five games; they drew once and lost twice between November and December. The two months have not been great for them, as most of their victory have been slim. They have not pocketed more than one goal. Apart from the records registered by both clubs, KMC have been very hard to beat and whenever they face Simba, the results become hard to bet. After the match against KMC Simba travel to Harare, Zimbabwe for their CAF game against Platinum on December 23rd at National Sports stadium. Simba will then welcome Platinum in Dar es Salaam on January 6th at Benjamin Mkapa stadium in Dar es Salaam for the second leg. The aggregate winner will step into the CAF Champions’ League group stage.