HUMAN development is achievable through joint efforts of citizens, government and other development partners. As government takes a leading role to bring development to people in ensuring basic needs are accessed by all in urban and rural areas, the Rotary Club of Oysterbay in Dar es Salaam is among those organisations which are in the forefront in helping the government solve existing challenges in the society. The Rotary Club of Oysterbay Dar es Salaam for years became the leading club in helping people in health, education and many other projects intended to bring better life among the people of Dar es Salaam. Established in 2009, the club has undertaken a number of developmental activities in various areas within the city, which are positively helping to lift high lives of many people. For instance, the club has set up a Mothers’ Vocational Training in Ukonga, Dar es Salaam, which aims at providing necessary education to mothers on how they can successfully use their skills to economically transform their own lives. Moreover, Ukonga residents are expected to benefit from better health services under the umbrella of the Community Health Initiative (CHI) of the Rotary Club Dar es Salaam, Oysterbay. The CHI project is aimed at supporting the procurement of medical equipment to the health facility thereby enabling people around it to access better health services. Again, this will help to shorten the distance of people to seek healthcare at Pugu health centre, 15 kms away. The Club’s Service Project Coordinator Mr Jubril Adeniji said that through CHI, they want to serve communities in need in the areas of healthcare and education. Mr Adeniji disclosed that the project is worth USD 32,000, to be raised with funds from Global Grant and International Club partners of International Rotary Clubs. He said that Ukonga health centre would help to support maternal health care and safe child delivery at the maternal bay, as well as to reduce the travelling distance to basic health care in the community. CHI is one of the club’s key areas of community service, which was launched in September 2013 with the first Medical Camp located at Kerege near Bagamoyo. The community health initiatives and the Pop –up camps under its roof are projects with immediate impact to save children who are regarded as the most vulnerable people in the society. Despite all efforts of local and national authorities as well as the international community, many Tanzanians face challenges to access medical services in case of illness. The Rotary Club also plans to build a well-equipped maternity centre and a health care centre at Goba whose operations will begin next year. According to a survey, there are 3,500 households at Goba without sufficient health care centres. “As such, we want to help pregnant mothers who travel on motorbikes to seek proper maternal care with some giving birth en-route to the health centre facilities,” Adeniji said. “We are supporting the government efforts by reducing the scope of maternal and child mortality rates as well as building capacity for local birth attendants and community health care workers,” he said. In terms of uplifting education standards, the Rotary Club of Oysterbay has picked Juhudi and Ukonga primary schools to renovate them and improve the learning environment for both pupils and teachers. The schools, with a population of 1,278 pupils, will be facilitated by re-flooring and repairing 10 classrooms in Ukonga. “We are planning to set up a modern library that will be used by Ukonga and Juhudi primary schools, whereby teachers and students will be trained to make the best use of it,” he stressed. Installation of 12 portable water stations and books will also be provided. For the sake of disease prevention and treatment, the club has set up medical camps at various primary schools where club members conduct general checkups like dental hygiene, eyesight test, malaria test, deworming, ETN (ear, nose and throat), dermatology and counseling. Malaria prevention and treatment will be executed in conjunction with the local government authorities, Ukonga Prisons Health Centre and Juhudi Primary School. “Our cub will provide free health checks which will support early diagnosis of other common ailments apart from malaria,” he said. Next to the primary goal of delivering medical services, the Medical Camps seek to deliver education concerning health and hygiene, the prevention of HIV and malaria and issues about menstrual health. “We believe in serving the community. For our Medical Camps we therefore work closely with the communities and villages which benefit from the service and regularly assess and integrate their needs,” Adenije said.