THE Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) has bagged the Gold European Award for Best Practices 2020. The conservation agency which manages 26 national parks in the country was feted by the European Society for Quality Research (ESQR) for its robust organisation strategies in conserving national park’s resources and implementing quality service delivery standards. These, according to ESQR, are backed by positive feedback from both local and international customers. Such a feat will be used as a catalyst for strengthening the efforts towards sustainable conservation of national parks, marketing and enhancing tourism services, the conservation senior assistant commissioner in charge of Corporate Communications, Pascal Shelutete said on Friday. “TANAPA aspires that this recognition will build confidence among international markets, thus attracting more tourists to the country and eventually realize the 5 million tourists-target in the next five years,” said Mr Shelutete in a statement. In the global awards, the conservation agency was awarded the Gold Category which features 51 winners of 2020 ESQR Awards, which included other companies, public administrations and organisations from 39 countries worldwide. Tanzania’s envoy to Belgium, Jestas Abouk Nyamanga is set to receive the award on the country’s behalf in Brussels next week. Both the Convention and the awards presentation ceremony will take place at the Hotel Le Plaza in Brussels. The awards recognise organisations, companies, public administrations, universities, NGOs and individuals with best practices and results in quality management strategies. It takes a comprehensive look at the initiatives and strategies that business leaders implement in their companies and organisations, recognise the efforts of exceptional and talented employers and employees, and provide motivation for continuous progress. Bringing together the best professionals, organisations, public administrations and companies in the field of Quality for event, the ESQR, through its recognition programme, is committed to recognise the best practices and spread the Quality Culture by engaging business leaders to have a more active role in it. The selection process of the ESQR awards includes the research of public information sources, publications and positive remarks, charity projects, chambers of commerce, university projects and exhibitions.