THE College of Business Education (CBE) has maintained a clean certificate from the Controller and Auditors General (CAG) and from Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA). This was revealed by CBE board Chairperson, Prof Esther Ishengoma, during the 55th graduation ceremony held at the weekend. A total of 2,248 students graduated in certificates, diplomas, first degrees and masters’ degrees. She said the secret behind those achievements was to make sure all collected college funds were allocated for proper use to improve infrastructure not otherwise. “The CBE board has continued monitoring the collection and use of those collected funds to ensure they are properly used for the benefit of the college and we have maintained the clean certificate from CAG and PPRA for many years,” she said. Either, Prof Ishengoma said because the nation was producing small job opportunities and so there was a need for college like CBE to produce entrepreneurs who would employ themselves and employ their fellow Tanzanians instead of moving all around looking for jobs after graduation. She said CBE in collaboration with University of Dar es Salaam Business College (UDBS) has written a document on what they could do to solve the unemployment problem and the government was still working on it. Minister for Industry and Trade Geoffrey Mwambe encouraged graduates to use the education they got from the college to establish their own companies and employ others instead of searching for jobs after graduation. He said there were a lot of opportunities which graduates could use them and breakthrough if they were innovative enough because the private sector was the number one employer, not the government. “I would like to hear that every one of you establishes his own company. If you graduated in accountancy establish your own firm, if you graduate in auditing establish an auditing firm and you who graduate in marketing make sure you establish a marketing firm,” he insisted. The minister said the government would continue creating a conducive environment for the private sector to grow and boost production and at the end of the day to make Tanzania one of the most giant economies in East Africa, Central Africa and the world. The minister also hailed the CBE management for the great strides they had made in a very short time as they had succeeded in moving from 54th university ranking up to 14th in five years. CBE Rector, Prof Emmanuel Mjema, said currently the college taught seven masters’ degrees in Information Communication Technology (ICT) in ICT Project Management, ICT for development, International Business Management, Supply chain management, Human Resource Management, Marketing and Banking and Finance. He said the college faced a shortage of funds to conduct different researches, but congratulated the government on paying salaries to the staff, saying by doing so it had reduced the burden of the college to run smoothly. “The main task of any university is to teach, conduct research and do consultancy...we are teaching properly because we are paid salaries, but when it comes to research there are challenges because there are no funds to facilitate research,” he said.