HOME Affairs Minister, George Simbachawene has called for peace and tolerance ahead of the New Year festival. He stressed that peace and tolerance requires political will, space for dialogue with local leaders and people with influence in the community. The Minister issued the call at his home town Kibakwe during thanksgiving prayers for his departed farther, the late Mzee Boniface Simbachawene Mwataguluvala. He urged Tanzanians to uphold peace and moral values founded by the father of the nation. “Peace and love begins at home. This festival season should help build peace and love in our families and the nation at large,” he said at a special session held at Catholic Church of Virgin Mary Pwaga Rosary Parish in Kibakwe Diocese, Mpwapwa district yesterday. “Families should live in love, cooperation, forgiveness, care, and peace. A unified family forms an important part of a unified community and subsequently the nation,” he said, adding that everyone must play his role in nation building. However, the Minister recalled that as the year comes to an end, Tanzanians should still forge ahead as one family despite the deadly coronavirus pandemic that disturbed the world. He noted that it was only peace that would help a lot in nation building, citing the October General Election that went peacefully and freely, adding: “... these are the reasons why we must thank God.” Elaborating, Mr Simbachawene cautioned motorists to respect the road safety rules and regulations to avoid unexpected road carnages. Road accidents in the country continue to decline according to reports from the ministry. A total of 9,250 roads accidents were recorded in 2017 up from only 1,602 accidents reported between January and November this year. The Acting Parish Priest of the church, Father Stephen Umondi hailed the minister for the gesture of 5m/- extended to them to help complete the ongoing Church construction. He said the church was planning to build the largest structure in the district that could accommodate between 600 and 800 followers.