TANZANIAN envoys Simba marched to the next round of the CAF Champions League unbeaten after clearing Plateau United hurdle in a barren draw match at Benjamin Mkapa stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Simba advanced, courtesy of a 1-0 away victory in Jos City, Nigeria last weekend. The 1-0 aggregate win has placed Simba to face FC Platinum of Zimbabwe who on Saturday saw off Costa de Sol of Mozambique with 4-1 aggregate victory. FC Platinum began well by beating Costa De Sol 2-1 away in Mozambique before claiming a clean 2-0 win at home in Zimbabwe yesterday. Simba could have scored two brilliant goals on Saturday if Hassan Dilunga and Luis Miquissone had converted the golden chances. Though they failed to advance, Plateau United played well and their cautious game that relied on well-crafted counter attacks. Zanzibar envoys KVZ and Mainland’s Namungo will be on ground today to face Atbara of Sudan and Al Rabita of South respectively in their return leg of CAF Confederation Cup matches. KVZ lost 1-0 away in the first leg match while Namungo stamped a comfortable 3-0 win. Simba could have opened their goal account in the first half. It was in the in the 39th minute when Luis Miquissone completed John Bocco’s assist but his feeble shot was stopped by the Plateau United goalkeeper Abubakar.. The first half ended with a barren draw as each team looked to concentrate much on defending most often at the middle of terrain. Plateau United matched into the second half with a lot of confidence compared to the first half, but most of their efforts were fruitless. Miquissone was the match’s outstanding player, he controlled the ball with pace, he most often outmanouvred Plateau defenders at his will. Hassan Dilunga wasted a platinum chance in the 66th minute which would have placed Simba ahead. After his attempt Dilunga was taken to bench; his place was taken by Bernard Morrison. The changes brought new life to Simba squad as he was pacy in attacking and he combined well with Morrison, Miquissone and Bocco upfront. Simba attempted to score in the 74th, 79th and 86th but all chances were saved and gave birth to fruitless corners. Until the final whistle, Simba had created a total of 12 corners, but none of them were fruitful. Simba stepped into their home stadium boldly with an advantage of 1-0 victory they pocketed on the first leg game. Their victory at New Jos stadium was stamped by the Premier League MVP, Clatous Chama. The win has then rectified Simba’s last season nightmare of being knocked out in the preliminary round. Simba were knocked out by UD Songo, following a 1-0 aggregate defeat. In response to the failure, the club fired Coach Patrick Aussems who led Simba to the Quarterfinals of the CAF Champions League in the 2018/19 season.