TANZANIAN traders at the country’s borders are to acquaint themselves with trade system policies, get correct information from right authorities so that they may benefit from the business. By so doing they will, without problem, address any challenges, such as trade barriers that can affect their business environment or make them not profit from such activities. Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade) Internal Market Manager Gertrude Ngweshemi, who was on a tour to speak with cross-border Tanzanian traders, said it was pertinent for them to ensure the trade benefitted Tanzania as a nation and its citizens. She said it was sad that most traders were engaged in importing goods from Kenya instead of exporting so as to have a good balance of trade. He said innovation that had been shown by traders was not good enough for the country’s economy. Many traders have been innovative in doing business, but the problem is how to get right information on the modality of doing business, laws and rules. “Most Tanzanians who engage in cross-border business do not know the modality of doing business. So, they just engage in importing goods, which is not good for the economy and the country,” said Ms Ngweshemi. He said there was no need for Tanzanian traders to go to Kenya and import cooking oil and come to sell at a cheap price, leading to the loss of market for locally-produced oil, one of the factors that contributed to the slowdown of economy growth. Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Senior Official Faith Gugu called on all cross-border traders to adhere to the law and abide by guidelines issued by government authorities to benefit from trade and improve their livelihoods. The tour is meant to raise the awareness of traders on best practices in doing business, including paying tax. Officials also wanted to know challenges facing the traders. Kilimanjaro Regional Assistant Customs Manager Edwin Iwato said some of traders lacked requisite information on how to utilise opportunities in doing cross-border business. He pledged to continue raising awareness so that their businesses prospered and the government got its share in revenue.