THE year 2020 is coming to an end and so many people are excited to start another year. For pupils, most of them are excited to start new classes and others who have passed their Primary School Leaving Examinations await to start secondary education. In secondary schools, most students move to the next forms: Form 1s move to Form 2 and prepare for their National Assessment Examinations, while Form 3s move to Form 4 that will determine their future. Form 4s will sit for their next exams which will assess them what they have studied during their four years of Ordinary Level in different schools they had attended. As we approach the end of the year, I have the following to advise students across the country. Change of attitude For the students, I advise them to change their negative attitudes to become positive. For instance, if a person was a common noise maker in class, was used to foul language towards others and held the tail in class performance, should change and comply with school etiquette and requirements. Forget about the past This year had some achievements and failures. So, be thankful to all the good things that have happened to you and don't keep the failures in your heart, but let them help you struggle to achieve the goals that you planned to achieve. If you are a student in school and planned to excel in your studies and you half performed, then be thankful for that half gained and don't let the other half bother you. Instead, among your goals for the next year set that one among the things that you want to do well. Thank God for protection and guidance This must be the first activity to do before doing any other things because there are people out there this year who wanted to see this festive season, but they couldn't due to either diseases or accidents that took their lives. A good example is during the Covid-19 pandemic in the world and in our country that took the lives of some of our beloved ones, and also the death of our beloved successor of the 2nd President of the United Republic of Tanzania Benjamin Mkapa. Some accidents that happened in the country, including the accident that happened at Mkuranga. Children praying for their parents to succeed and get money to get basic needs As the New Year approaches children need school fees and stationery to go with to school, so they start requesting their parents to pay for them school fees and buy for them their requirements especially boarding school students in secondary schools. So they must pray to God that their parents may get their requirements on time and they must keep them safe to avoid making their parents incur extra costs. Teachers preparing for themselves During this time, teachers must also prepare themselves physically and mentally to get either different classes to teach or prepare themselves properly because the New Year can come with new things and setbacks that a teacher may not expect. All in all, I would like to wish everyone reading this article Merry Christmas and Happy New Year 2021. As we prepare the pathway for Jesus Christ in our hearts, let us also ask for his blessings in the New Year that he may help us go through the New Year and that the Holy Spirit may protect us and lighten the right path for us to move on. •  The author is a Form Three student at St Anthony Secondary School Mbagala. 