KAGERA Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig-Gen Marco Gaguti, has appealed to residents in the region to work hard and double production of food and cash crops. The regional commissioner assured them of government support in the implementation of development projects to improve their livelihoods. Equally, he urged the private sector to utilise immense opportunities in the tourism sector, particularly in the promotion of domestic tourism. Brig-Gen Gaguti welcomed investors both local and foreigners to invest in the area while assuring them of government support. He explained that Kagera Region was strategically situated due to its proximity to three East African Community (EAC) nations - Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda. “The government welcomes investors both local and foreigners through the construction of five star hotels and tour companies. The recent upgrading of Burigi-Chato, Rumanyika-Karagwe and Ibanda-Kyerwa National Parks and the newly rehabilitated MV Victoria are part of tourist attractions,” he said. “People should work hard by doubling production of cash and food crops to improve their incomes. Residents in border areas should also embrace business opportunities available in their areas,” he said. He warned government officials who acted as obstacles to business growth and development along regional borders, saying cross-border businesses had not improved to match opportunities available. “The border between one country and another is an opportunity to people living in the area. People should use border areas to do business and improve their standard of living provided that they satisfy all legal requirements and pay tax,” he said. He said Kagera Region had abundant investment opportunities, including tourism along Burigi-Chato National Park, minerals such as gold, tin and Lake Victoria fish resources. He noted that lack of domestic tourism awareness was a challenge in the private sector to contribute to national economic building efforts. He explained that the upgrading of Burigi-Chato, Ibanda- Kyerwa and Rumanyika-Karagwe National Parks was in line with government efforts to expand tourism sachets in the North-western Zone. This is a golden opportunity not to be missed and will increase the number of tourists.