WHEN the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) said it would be illegal to use plastic tubings in all forms of businesses starting January 1, 2021, millions of water and nuts vendors, sellers of meat, fish, fruits and vegetables worriedly scratched their heads. But now there is hope a new version of wrappings will end their misery. The majority of users of plastic wrappings are millions of energetic young Tanzanians employing themselves in the informal sector of the economy. A week ago NEMC organised a closed-door meeting, which brought together manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers and business owners using plastic wrappings. They discussed the implications of the ban and at the end of the meeting NEMC Director-General (DG) Samuel Gwamaka told reporters that it was an amicable meeting, but insisted the December 31 deadline would remain unchanged. Naturally, the DG’s statement left vendors half-happy. But that meeting had a concealed good thing to make vendors happy. That good thing was the intention of the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) to examine critically the nature of the wrappings currently in circulation. CTI was represented by Mr Hussein Sufiani, who said their association was happy the meeting had been held. Mr Sufiani later told reporters that CTI welcomed the meeting because NEMC and Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) representatives had ample time to explain all issues surrounding the ban. CTI also had an opportunity to express its views and stand. “We congratulate NEMC on bringing all parties together to discuss the issue and explain well why the use of wrappings that have not been cleared by TBS are against the Environmental Management Act and its Regulations. We were given beautiful explanation, but I proposed that there should be another meeting of this nature,” he said. Another meeting will be called by NEMC before the end of the month. Mr Sufiani said manufacturers were patriots and had interests of the nation at heart. “We do not want to be part of the people who do not obey the law. That is why we attended the meeting and fortunately were given good explanation. We gave our position that we are going back to our experts and see how to redesign our machines. But also see how NEMC will implement the law without harming businesses,” he explained. Redesigning machines brings new hope that the new version of wrappings is in sight. It will make millions of users of wrappings continue with their businesses. But relief of millions of vendors will depend on how keen the delegates are in implementing their own pledges and in good faith. On the one hand, you have NEMC and TBS, the prominent public agencies in the issue. On the other you have manufacturers and traders, representatives of the private sector. NEMC and TBS experts had to have interest in Mr Sufiani’s pledge, visit and examine samples of wrappings produced by manufacturers’ experts after redesigning the machines. Such visits are necessary, for talking is one thing, doing is quite another. But there is the question of cooperation between public and private functionaries in solving problems that have enormous impact on the lives of Tanzanians. Phasing out of illicit plastic wrappings is certainly inevitable, there is no question about that. However, it must be admitted that wrappings are necessary in everyday life. In this particular issue, if public and private agencies sincerely cooperate, everything will go well and this will show patriotism. For patriotism is about defending the interests of the majority, more so passionately defending the interests of the weak segments of society. Vendors belong to the weak segments of society. But such cooperation also proves to outsiders that Tanzania remains serious about public-private dialogue and cooperation in enhancing the common interests of Tanzanians and their national economy. In this issue, too, open and honest public-private consultations will also result in getting the new version of wrappings by December 31 or if needs be to extend the deadline to a new date without doing any harm to the environment. Mr Sufiani said it all: “manufacturers are patriots too.” But he also said CTI would want to see the conduct of business in the country went rather smoothly as the law was implemented because the lives of many people depended on the use of wrappings. In an interview published in the local media recently views expressed by interviewees vindicated Mr Sufiani. The reaction of interviewees revealed the anxiety of vendors if the wrapping simply disappeared without a replacement. Credit still goes to NEMC for calling the meeting. If NEMC had not called the meeting what had come to light, wouldn’t have happened. By calling the meeting, NEMC proved that consultation and inclusiveness was vital in the successful implementation of important national decisions. But it also proved that knowledge and wisdom was not an exclusive domain of government workers. At the end of that meeting, Dr Gwamaka told reporters: “… It was an amicable meeting, where we received views from all delegates and we are going to work on them.” The time for working on those views together has presented itself. “If those views will be worked on, then the calling of that meeting was necessary."