THE Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (Costech) said it has so far injected about 50bn/- into various research and innovation projects countrywide to speed up the country’s development. The revelation was made in Mpwapwa District, Dodoma Region, by Costech Research Officer Merchades Rutechura during an interview with a team of journalists during their tour of Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (Taliri) Mpwapwa Centre. According to Mr Rutechura, the money was injected into research and innovation between 2010 and 2020 and that so far about 100 different researches had been conducted and 70 per cent of them had been completed.“The completion of these researches has helped policy makers to put in place workable plans for the country’s development,’’ he noted, adding that Costech had also funded different innovators and upcoming researchers. Mr Rutechura added that Costech also funded researches conducted by experts in higher learning institutions. According to the Costech researcher, the main target of research findings is to contribute to the country’s economy and Costech ensures the findings reach members of the public. “We are using a lot of government funds to improve technology so that it can help improve people’s livelihoods,’’ he added. Costech conducted two-day training of journalists and researchers drawn from Dodoma and Singida regions to help them communicate research information in a language a common person can understand. Training was preceded by a media tour of various research centres. Among them were Taliri centres in Mpwapwa and Kongwa districts. Besides the two centres in Dodoma Region, Taliri has five other research centres strategically located in seven agro-ecological zones of Mainland Tanzania. The centres and their regions in brackets are Taliri Mabuki (Mwanza), Taliri Naliendele (Mtwara), Taliri Tanga, TaliriI Uyole (Mbeya) and Taliri West Kilimanjaro (Kilimanjaro). Costech’s core business is among other things to conduct research in animal breeding, animal health, animal product processing, nutrition, pasture production and proper utilisation of rangeland resources.