ARDHI University (ARU) has innovated a new technology of producing alternative charcoal from waste products. This was revealed at the weekend in Dar es Salaam by ARU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Evaristo Liwa, when speaking during the 14th graduation ceremony held in Dar es Salaam at the weekend. At least 927 graduates were awarded first degree, masters’ degree and four PhDs by ARU Chancellor, former Prime Minister Cleopa Msuya. He said the project had helped to plan, measure and provide tittle deeds in Mbarali District and had also helped areas of small industries to produce charcoal and infrastructure to transport resources to be used by those industries. He mentioned other opportunities that were created by that project as availability of capital, copy rights, a decrease in land conflict cases and a decrease in epidemic diseases. Prof Liwa said ARU also conducted research on how to improve the use of a new technique of irrigation system in Rufiji Valley to increase efficiency and productivity in Iringa District and address challenges of water use in Rufiji River. Prof Liwa said under the sponsorship of the Commission for Science and Technology (Costech), the facility also conducted research on natural technology of house construction which could not easily be damaged by earthquakes in Dodoma. The research will enable academicians to use expertise in innovating modern buildings in the region. He said ARU achievements were the fruits of collaboration between the management and all staff members, including development partners. Prof mentioned some of the development partners, including SIDA from Sweden, GIZ and DAAD of Germany, Norway, Denmark and China also recognised the contribution of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology for the growth of ARU that made it stronger year by year. “Specifically, I would like to congratulate all graduates on this achievement. You have made it your history and that of the nation because I know your journey was not all that easy, but eventually you have made it,” he noted. He said for the academic year 2020/21, ARU had enrolled 1,653 first year students for the first degree and 97 for the masters’ degree while four were for PhDs. He explained that ARU had introduced 13 programmes of the first degree, the masters’ degree and PhDs, taking into consideration the labour market as the embarked on industrialisation.