LAST week we covered a topic about an elephant which has led us today to come up with another subject which is going to enable us to know more about this largest land animal on Earth. Apart from the tusks, large and spreading ears which measure between 114 and 183 centimeters are distinguishing feature of the African elephant meanwhile scientists describe an ear as an organ of the sense of hearing, and in mammals is also an organ of balance. The structure of an ear consists of three parts; inner ear, middle ear and outer ear which is the external portion of the ear and includes the fleshy visible auricle or pinna, the ear canal, and the outer layer of the eardrum, the outer ear is the only visible portion of the ear in most animals resulting into the use of the word “ear”. But the physical structure of the elephant ear can be explained as a sheet of cartilage covered by thin skin whereby the wider surface area of outer ear tissue on the African elephants ears consists of a vast network of capillaries and veins which enable them to be used for different important purpose. When a threat is perceived by the elephant, the ears are spread wide on each side of the head, which produces a huge frontal area, and when flapped, they quickly lower the animal’s body temperature because the action swiftly send blood with cold waves which lower temperature to about 15 degrees Fahrenheit as the browse in the middle of savannah. To survive under the hot weather of the tropical savannah, the size of the elephant need special mechanism to cool the upper part of its body which is exposed to harmful sunrays which constantly burn it and send heatwaves inside the body where important organs are found. A unique mechanism is very important for survival of the colossal animal because the sunrays penetrate very easily because the 2 to 3 centimeters thick skin is unable to offer full protection. Scientists estimate the skin of the elephant to weigh between 450 and 750 kilogrammes and the thinnest parts of skin is found around their eyes, on the chest, abdomen and shoulders and behind their ears where the skin is as thin as paper, it is on these side where a network of tiny blood vessels work under very thin skin to carry blood with cold waves to cool the body. Due to these factors elephants skin is very sensitive to the sun and to avoid death, during hot days calves spend most of their time under the shadow of their mothers, scientists say elephants skin is so sensitive and rich in nerves that it can detect even the smallest fly landing upon it, not only that the skin has wrinkles which work with the ears to cool their colossal bodies. With ability of growing between122 centimeters wide and 185 centimeters long, this feature makes them to act as big fans which work to cool the body when are flapped back and forth to create light breeze which cool the body. On the other side, elephant is such a large round shape and contains large organs, their insides generate a lot of heat, particularly the digestive system which need special mechanism for protection. Each elephant’s ear is unique and different to any other elephant’s ear and they are used just like fingerprints on a human as a type of identification. The ears serve several important functions in the elephant and when a threat is perceived by the elephant, the ears are spread wide on each side of the head, which produces a huge frontal area and this means the African elephant uses its ears as signalling organs. Another amazing function of the elephant ear is its ‘infra sound capabilities’. This is used for long range communication between the elephants, scientists say elephant ears are extremely sensitive and by using them elephants are able to communicate over great distances with each other. You need to know elephants are highly vocal but their loud “vocalisations” do more than wake up the neighbours because by creating this vocalisation with such a high sound pressure that it hits the ground, like a mini explosion, so hard that it creates ripples across the surface of the ground from one side to another in the savannah and that is how the elephant sends a message, and it is believed that other elephants can tell whether the signal is coming from a friend or a enemy, and whether danger, or food, is nearby. History shows centuries ago our ancestors gathered in a village square around fire to listen to the village drummer who sent out both auditory and seismic messages which reached their ears in waves which carry rhythms that forced them out of their houses. On the other side scientists say elephants are much better at detecting vibrations than humans with normal hearing. Scientists describe seismic communication or vibrational communication as unique way to conveying of information through seismic vibrations of the substrate and the substrate may be the earth together with its contents such as plants. Vibrational communication is an ancient sensory modality and it is widespread in the animal kingdom where it has evolved several times independently, it has been reported in mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, insects and worms. In this kind of communication requires a sender, a message, and a recipient, although neither the sender nor receiver need be present or aware of the others intent to communicate at the time of communication. To prove this, scientists say the elephant that receives the message exhibits specific behaviour according to nature of the waves because an elephant may hear airborne sounds emitted by the sender and when this happens an individual will spread out its ears to interpret the signal and determine the direction it is coming from. These are acoustic signals which are used for giving out information about immediate situation through reflection, refraction and absorption because they are much greater for high frequency sounds than for low frequency sounds. Elephants are specialists in the production of low frequency sound and in the use of long-distance communication. Scientists say elephants are able to produce very low frequency sounds because are large bodied and are capable to use vibrating string and the larger the resonating chamber. In addition of being large bodied animals, elephants have several adaptations mechanisms which allow them to make their resonating chamber even larger and their vocal chords even longer and this enables them to produce even lower sounds. Sometime an elephant may lift up its foot to place its whole weight on the toes of the other foot and this unique behaviour is done to detect seismic signals that can tell much, including danger, the presence of food or water, or the willingness of a potential mate at least two miles away and different scientific researches show that if the signal indicated danger, the elephants would crowd together in their defensive posture. Moreover, when an elephant rumbles, the infrasound that is produced pairs with the surface of the earth as it is being broadcasted and travel through the ground and through this way, elephants are able to use seismic vibrations at infrasound frequencies for communication. Scientists say these vibrations can be detected by the skin of an elephant’s feet and trunk, which relay the resonant vibrations, similar to the skin on a drum. Further study of elephants has shown that they are particularly well equipped with special mechanism which enables them to communicate through seismic waves because their feet are equipped with large fat pads beneath the heel that scientists believe may facilitate transmitting the waves to the elephant’s brain. For seismic communication elephant use their toes which are buried inside the flesh of the foot which allow few toes on the foot measuring between 40 and 50 centimetres in length and a circumference of about 1.34 meters which use these features for communication. All these factors enable elephants to lead their own life and thrive in the savannah and when they come into our neighbourhoods they become dangerous because their hearing ability is stronger and sharp than ours. rstanslaus@yahoo.com