TANZANIA this week started collecting data at household level for its first ever Social Institutions and Gender Index Survey (SIGI), making it the third country in Africa to adapt the global SIGI framework after Uganda and Burkina Faso. The collection of data in the country’s 31 regions follows last week’s training of 16 teams of 48 enumerators and 16 supervisors in Manyara Region on how to professionally conduct the survey. Trainees were drawn from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) from Mainland Tanzania and from the Office of Chief Government Statistician in Zanzibar. They are expected to complete data collection in January 2021. This survey aims at generating evidence for a greater understanding of how social norms, formal and informal laws and practices create barriers for gender equality in Tanzania. The global SIGI was first launched in 2009 before it was updated in 2012, 2014 and 2019. It measures the invisible components of gender equality by looking at fault lines in social systems, including legislation, social norms and practices and the impacts on women and men in relation to rights and opportunities. At the centre of SIGI is to bring together the analysis of legal and policy architecture with data on human practices and attitudes, indicating what is perceived as acceptable or not for women and men in different settings. It, therefore, helps to create a compelling analysis of both the state of laws as well as the situation on the ground and showing the key role of social institutions in influencing the status of women and girls. Discrimination in the family, restricted physical integrity, limited access to productive and financial resources, and curtailed civil liberties are socioeconomic and political dimensions covered by the SIGI instrument to build a case on the effects of gender discrimination against women and girls throughout their lifetimes. While the global SIGI already provides an assessment of discriminatory social institutions, country-specific studies using the SIGI innovation provides a more realistic picture of the prevailing situation on the ground. Last week NBS in Mainland Tanzania and the Office of Chief Government Statistician in Zanzibar launched the survey, thanks to technical support from UN Women with funding from the government of Ireland. According to Charge d’Affairs at the Embassy of Ireland in Tanzania Adrian Fitzgerald, support to the SIGI process enabled UN Women to collaborate with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to strengthen the capacity of national statistical institutions to generate and conduct a comprehensive data analysis from the SIGI. “To date, a country background paper, which features existing gender dynamics under the four dimensions of SIGI was developed and discussed with different stakeholders in the country. Through a series of technical meetings, OECD and UN Women have trained, coached and mentored the national statistical institutions on the conceptual framework of SIGI and the collection and analysis of SIGI data,” said Mr Fitzgerald. Following a series of capacity building initiatives, the government statistical institutions were able to customise and adopt the framework and developed indicators relevant for Tanzania. The sample design and questionnaire for SIGI was finalised and all products shared with multiple stakeholders and validated. Mr Fitzgerald further emphasised the importance of the SIGI process, explaining it was a step in the right direction as it works in line with the Agenda 2030 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Findings and recommendations will provide evidence to inform the development of more gender-responsive policies, programmes, strategies and budgets that will enhance efforts to address the root causes of gender inequality in Tanzania,” he said. In an interview recently, NBS Acting Director for Population Census and Social Statistics Ruth Minja reiterated that the survey “was an important initiative that will generate evidence to better the understanding of the nature and extent of discriminatory social institutions.” This understanding, she added, “will help inform interventions that can address policy challenges to gender inequality, alongside improving the measurement of the implementation of global commitments on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the country.” She further explained that qualitative data collected would help identify and explain how gender discrimination in attitudes and practices contribute to constraining women’s rights to socioeconomic and political opportunities. “Indeed, the underlying drivers of gender inequalities limit women’s access to productive resources such as land and also place the burden of unpaid care and domestic work on women and girls and depriving them of the time to invest in other opportunities. Unless we know how, where and to what extent this is happening, we will not be able to make significant progress in addressing gender inequality,” Ms Minja said. According to UN Women Representative Hodan Addou, the SIGI survey presents great opportunities to strengthen interventions in support of gender equality and in partnership with the government and other development partners. “We would like to congratulate the government of the United Republic of Tanzania for demonstrating commitment to expanding the production of quality and credible gender data to be used to further strengthen gender responsiveness at the national level. As the world battles Covid-19, SIGI findings will help Tanzania enhance policies and programmes to come out even much stronger and more effective in building back better for a gender-equal and inclusive Tanzania,” Ms Addou said. She further explained that the SIGI results would support renewed efforts to mobilise more financial and technical resources for bettertargeted actions in addition to strengthening partnerships for robust, impactful, and farreaching interventions. “UN Women is happy to be an active participant in this survey. It gives us something positive to look forward to in 2021 as together with the government and development partners such as the Embassy of Ireland, we are now even more determined to ensure that the Leave No-One Behind Principle becomes a lived reality for women and girls in Tanzania,” Ms Addou said.