YOUNG Africans’ newly recruited Burundian striker Saido Ntibanzokiza has said that he will work hard with fellow players to make sure that his team performs well in the Premier League. The Jangwani Street –based side had beefed up their attacking department by signing the 33-year-old striker who was in fine form when Burundi beat Tanzania’s Taifa Stars 1-0 in an international friendly staged at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium recently. His first appearance at the club saw Ntibazonkiza scoring two out of three goals when the former Premier League Champions beat the First Division League outfit, Singida United 3-0 in a friendly match on Tuesday. “I’m happy to play for Yanga,they approached me in their quest to reinforce their squad and I said let me go for the challenge to see how we can altogether build the team,” “I will use my experience and with a combination of other experienced players we will achieve a goal,” said a Burundian after the match. “I feel happy to see people appreciating what you do, It’s my first experience to play with Yanga but a I see a bright future here,” said Ntibazonkiza, who started to play football at Vital’O and on February 10, 2017, signed for Kazakhstan Premier League club Kaysar Kyzylorda. After being released by Kaysar Kyzylorda, Ntibazonkiza returned to his first club, Burundian side Vital’O, where Yanga have secured his services. He said that he could not predict which team could be a barrier for Yanga’s marathon to the title. “Let’s see how it is going since I’m a new player I cannot say that, it’s is too early considering to the fact that I have not yet played for the league match,” he said. Ntibanzokiza scored his goals in the 22nd and 66th minutes, the first one after he received a pass from Farid Mussa and the second one through a penalty after Ditram Nchimbi was brought down in the penalty area. The other goal came from in form Deus Kaseke, who has been in a consistency scoring form in his recent league matches. Kaseke has said that his determination is to see him appearing in the top list of league scorers. In the recent four matches, he scored the lone goal when Yanga played Azam FC at Chamazi complex. He also scored the lone goal against JKT Tanzania and contributed one of five goals when Yanga punished Mwadui 5-0 in their last league match.