TANZANIA Geothermal Development Company (TGDC), will next year commence exploration drilling to test the sustainability of the existing geothermal system in Ngozi, Mbaka-Kiejo and Songwe projects. Geologist at TGDC, Mr Adonias Mkangala revealed this on Wednesday at the on-going 5th Tanzanian industrial products exhibition. Mr Mkangala said extensive studies have been completed in those areas, and that the next step is exploration drilling in which preparations are underway. He said if everything goes as planned, the exploration drilling will hopefully begin soon. “Preparations are underway, including the announcement of the tender for delivery, testing and commissioning of a small drilling rig with necessary accessories to be used in the geothermal exploration activities,” he noted. TGDC is a subsidiary company of Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco), 100 per cent owned by the government, and incorporated in December 2013 to spearhead the development of geothermal resources in Tanzania. Geothermal energy is heat from the earth, it is clean and sustainable energy and is considered a renewable energy resource because of a reuse system that re-injects water back to the ground after the steam is condensed and cooled, and the heat emanating from the interior of the earth is essentially limitless. It is estimated that 200MW of geothermal energy are expected to be generated by 2025, Tanzania has 50 areas potential for generating 5,000MW of geothermal power. “Scientific research involving geological studies, geochemistry, geophysics as well as the environment is on-going in other parts of the country and has reached different levels. So far we have researched the surface of the earth in the areas of Ngozi, Kiejo Mbaka, all located in Mbeya Region, Songwe, Natron in Arusha and Luhoi in Coast region,” he said. The geologist asserted that geothermal hot water can be used for heating buildings (either individually or town), raising plants in greenhouses, drying crops, heating water at fish farms and several industrial processes such as pasteurizing milk. He mentioned geothermal potential areas in Tanzania as Natron, Manyara, Ngorongoro, Mampulo, Kilambo, Kasumulo, Luhoi, Utete, Kisaki Mtende, Tagalala, Majimoto-Mara, Takwa, Mpondi, Hika, Msule, Ibadakuli, Mtagata, Amboni, Maji moto – Katavi, Meru and Lake Eyasi, with total estimated potential capacity to generate 5,000MW. 