ALL seems not well with Bernard Morrison at Simba as he has once again been dropped from the squad of 24 players to face Platinum in CAF Champions League match on Wednesday next week. The two sides will face off at National Sports venue in Zimbabwe in the first leg battle of the CAF CL before meeting for the reverse tie on January 6th next year at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The brigade of Simba left the country on Friday morning via Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) fully armed to gun down their opponents and stamp an advantage of doing well in the second leg battle. But, the talking point has been the missing of the controversial Ghanaian player Morrison who was initially deemed as the right man to help Simba perform well in the continent’s biggest club competition but, things look like to have made a u-turn. Simba, however, lifted the lead yesterday to confirm that Bernard Morrison didn’t travel with the team to Zimbabwe due to injury and the player was yesterday rushed to the hospital for treatment. According to the team’s Manager Abbass Seleman, Morrison was sick and failed to attend training, hence he was rushed to the hospital for further treatment. Others who didn’t travel with the team are David Kameta who failed to get visas due to his commitment with the U-20 team, Ngorongoro Heroes. Also missed a trip is Kennedy Juma and Charles Ilanfya. It is the third time for Morrison to be left out in competitive games for Simba starting with their top flight league trip to Mbeya where they played Mbeya City and succeeded to collect crucial three points. Thereafter, the defending champions hosted KMC at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city and the name of Morrison was nowhere to be seen from the selected players who were passed fit for the game. As such, this is now the third time for him to be excluded hence more questions without answers are now being queried to know what is happening with Morrison at the Msimbazi Street based club. However, Morrison’s bad days at Simba began to be seen immediately when a video clip of him in Simba jersey circulated on social media platforms where he symbolically insulted people he described as ‘haters’ who wish him not to succeed at the club. The clip went viral before their Mbeya City journey hence probably the reason why he has been excluded in their three back to back matches for the club as many people who watched the clip viewed it as a big disrespect for a professional player of his caliber. Pundits have already rated his performance since joining Simba as below par in comparison with the way he performed while serving at his former club Young Africans where he recorded series of dramas but helped them to win games including the traditional derby against Simba of which he netted the solo goal in their 1-0 victory last season. The full squad of Simba which travelled for the important game is made up of the following Goalkeepers: Aishi Manula, Ally Salum and Beno Kakolanya. Defenders: Shomari Kapombe, Gadiel Michael, Mohamed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni, Ibrahim Ame, Joash Onyango and Pascal Wawa. Midfielders: Jonas Mkude, Mzamiru Yassin, Said Ndemla, Larry Bwalya, Hassan Dilunga, Francis Kahata, Clatous Chama and the new player Taddeo Lwanga who is said to be a replacement of Brazilian Gerson Fraga. Strikers: John Bocco, Meddie Kagere, Chris Mugalu, Louis Miquissone, Ibrahim Ajibu and Miraji Athumani