THERE is more than adventure if one happens to visit Nilo Nature Forest Reserve (NNFR), a popular place for ecotourism in Tanzania. For Christians who want to get natural holy water, this is a place to go. Located in West Usambara in Lushoto District, Tanga Region, NNFR, under the Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS), has a boundary length of 6,025 hectares. The reserve falls under three district authorities namely, Korogwe, Mkinga and Muheza. Apart from several other attractions, the forest is termed as the land of higher biodiversity and endemic flora and fauna. It is also popularly termed as the home to three horned chameleons. Some of the eye-catching attractions, according to NNFR Conservator, Fabian Mukome, include the Holy Water point which attracts many people touring the forest reserve. Holy Water point: This is an historical point found within the reserve along the Kizara– Kizerui drive route. It is believed that in a number of past years, a Bishop and his porter were on the travel from Amani to Kizara. The porter felt thirsty, unfortunately they had no water and the place was too dry, and, as a result the Bishop blessed the place and water came out. Even today, that water is there and people use it for drinking and other uses for local belief. What is more interesting, according to Ms Wema Felix, a tourism officer in the forest the holy water is available at the point even during the drought season. “Every year, Christians come to conduct their prayers at this point and they fetch holy water to take to their families afterwards,’’ says Ms Felix. Nilo and Lutindi Peaks: Another principal area within the reserve is the Nilo Peak and high biodiversity of flora and fauna. Nilo Peak is the highest peak in the reserve as well as in East Usambara, having an elevation of 1,506 metres above sea level. Also, the reserve has the highest biodiversity value compared to other forest reserves in East Usambara. According to Mr Mukome, the reserve is included in East Usambara Man and Biosphere Reserve (EUMAB). There is also another peak known as Lutindi peak—the second highest peak with an elevation of 1,400 metres above the sea. Lutindi peak provides an opportunity to see almost 90 per cent of dense forested Mountain Arcs found within the reserve and East Usambara. Lutindi peak is a good place where apart from enjoying cool weather associated with wind blowing at moderate speed, also to the western direction of this peak you can see Lwengera valley which separates East Usambara and West Usambara mountains. Tuvui Water Falls: NNFR also has unique waterfalls, called Tuvui. It is very close to Denmark campsite and office headquarters about 200 metres. Water is falling on rocks laminated with endemic, beautiful and famous flowers in Eastern Arc Mountains called African violet flower (Saintpaulia). Saintpaulia sites: These are plant species that are not found in other areas in the world except in East Usambara Mountains. They can be found growing on the rocks. High diversity of flora and fauna: The reserve has the highest biodiversity value compared to other forest reserves in East Usambara according to researches. These include rare, endangered, vulnerable and threatened species of outstanding values. According to Ms Felix, a tourism officer in the forest, all eco-tourists and researchers with various interests including bird watchers, botanists and zoologists as well as mountain climbers/hikers will satisfy their needs when visiting NNFR. Bird watching: For tourists who love watching birds, they will never be disappointed either when visiting NNFR. In the reserve there are long billed tailorbird that people visiting the forest love watching. Three-horned chameleon Tourists who do a night walk in the forest get an opportunity to see three horned chameleons which are unique in nature. There are different types of chameleons in the forest including one-horned chameleons, two-horned chameleons and three-horned chameleons that attract many tourists. Cultural tourism East Usambara is dominated by the Wasambaa tribe. The culture of Wasambaa ethnic tribe has different practices which attract tourists to learn from this tribe. In the reserve there are two worshiping areas, Lutindi peak and Kwemkole village called “Hundu.” These two areas are highly respected by the communities. Tourists visiting the forest witness several Local dances for example Mdumange during marriage ceremonies, Mpungwa – a spiritual healing dance, as well as Kidembwa –when a woman has given birth. The attractions found in NNFR, are not quite different from those found in Amani Nature Forest Reserve (ANFR). Also under TFS, the forest reserve is very popular because of its good number of three-horned chameleons. The forest is located in Muheza District also in Tanga Region and it attracts many tourists who according to the in charge of ecotourism and Assistant Conservator, Isack Matunda, are highly interested in the night walk to observe the three horned chameleons that are only seen during the night. The ‘Daily News’ Writer had a glimpse of the attractions, as he was taken through the forest by tour guides who are highly professional on the way they explain about the attractions. Mr Matunda who is also the training and research officer says tourists visiting the forest reserve also love watching beautiful butterflies, also found in the forest. 33-year-old Magreth Shaban is one of the butterfly keepers in the forest. She has been earning her living by selling butterflies’ boos and she says that many tourists visit her place to see the butterflies. The forest according to Mr Matunda has also various view points, waterfalls, Saintpaulia flowers and the highest biodiversity of flora and fauna. Tanga Region has also another forest reserve― Magamba Nature Forest Reserve (MNFR), where a tourist can experience different natural beauty and cultural heritage, leading to a successful environmental conservation and meet the present and next generation needs. It is popularly known as the Land of Higher Biodiversity and Endemic Flora and Fauna. MNFR is a state owned forest reserve located in West Usambara Mountain Block in Lushoto District with high biodiversity of endemic flora and fauna and high water catchment value. Managed by TFS, under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, the forest covers a total area of 9,283.9 hectares and was designated as a nature forest reserve since March 2016, according to MNFR conservator, Ms Getruda Nganyangwa. “This forest has abundant biodiversity and endemic flora and fauna such as camphor and podo trees, black and white colobus monkeys, chameleons, snakes, varieties of birds and other exciting tourism activities,’’ she says. The forest reserve attracts many tourists from Germany who visit the forest to visit the old Germany Cave found there. A visit by the ‘Daily News’ writer at the forest reserve discovered that this cave was dug during the Germany rule in Tanganyika and it is believed that the cave was used for defence and Bauxite mine searching. It is believed to be used in the First World War (1914- 1918) by Germany troops. “I have been in Tanga Region for the past 20 days and I have really enjoyed my tour of the nature forest reserve because it is a nice place with fresh air and a lot of birds, nice trees and chameleons,’’ says Mr Karl Baken from the Dutch Travel Agency during an interview with the ‘Daily News’. 23-year-old Eli Mjema is a young man whose core business in the forest is to cook for the tourists visiting the ANFR. He noted during an interview: “I normally look for tourists from different hotels and convince them to come and see the beauty of this forest where we cook together, and eat when they get tired after touring the forest. Visitors coming to the forest according to MNFR Tourism, Training, Research and Innovation Officer, Samiji Mlemba can encounter many forms of life by walking, hiking and trekking along nature trails. According to Mr Philipp Nagel, a tourist from Germany who during an interview was touring the nature forest reserve, he was very happy with MNFR especially when he visited the Germany cave. “I have learnt a lot about the history of Germany in Tanzania and I really encourage more people from my country to come and visit this forest,’’ he says. His experience is not different from that of Ms Linda Hinderer, also from Germany who said she was attracted by the nature reserve as it was closer to Lushoto town and its beauty. At the end of a long and tiring adventure trek, hike and walk visitors are able to find a sense of relaxation by camping in Magamba, Kigulu Hakwewa and skyline campsites. According to the conservator, visitors are allowed to come with their own tents or hire them from the reserve’s head office. However, she adds, for those who do not want to sleep in the forest, luxury accommodation with good sleeping arrangements, foreign and locally made food are available in Lushoto town which is just nearby. Listen, the tourist attractions are not only in Tanga Region but countrywide. For example, a tourist that will visit Rau Natural Forest Reserve (RNFR) in Kilimanjaro Region will never regret, why? Simply because of a unique big tree called melicia Excelsa, Milk spring water and Black and white colobus monkeys, amongst others. The forest is located in the South East of Moshi town and is surrounded by six villages which are Msaranga, Mabogini, Mandaka Mnono, Njoro, Mji Mpya and Kaloleni. The forest is state owned and it is managed by the Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS), under the ministry of Natural Resources and tourism. It only takes a tourist 20 minutes from the Central Business District (CBD) to that forest reserve, if one chooses to take a walk. But for a tourist opting for a ride it is even closer. The attractions found in the forest include a big unique tree called melicia excels (Mvule wa maajabu). The tree is considered to be among the largest trees found in Africa and it is found at the centre of the forest. It has a height of 50 metres and a diametre of 3metres. Its age was approximated at 195 years in the year 2000. According to Ramadhani Kilimba, a security official in that forest, the tree is used by traditional healers from the nearby communities for rituals and medicinal purposes. “People come during the night, make their spiritual activities and even leave money at the tree,’’ he says. Mr Kilimba says that even academics, researchers and students come to visit the forest to see that tree for research and academic purposes. Due to its size, it is not easy to surround the tree. In order to complete the circle that surrounds the tree, it needs more than 11 to 14 people, imagine! Milk spring water in the forest, there is a pond found on the southern part of the forest reserve. Its water is milk-like colored and it is underground water originating from mountain Kilimanjaro, the tallest mountain in Africa. “I am currently on internship in this forest and one of the unique and miraculous things found in this forest is this water that cannot be found anywhere except in this forest, says Linah John, who just graduated recently with a bachelor’s degree in Rural Development at Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) in Morogoro Region. Birds watching: It is believed that in that forest reserve there are more than 50 types of birds including African spoonbill, sunbirds, African paradise, flycatcher, King fisher’s, African doves, speckled, mouse birds, African Jacana, black-winged stilt, black smith lapwing, heron, Ibises, Egrets, Hamerkop storks, among others. “I like the forest because it is closer to Moshi town, it only takes me few minutes to walk from town to here and I really enjoy the birds,’’ says Linda Hinderer, a tourist from Germany. Unique trees: There are also several species of trees that are unique, famous and rare including Oxystigma msoo and Kilimanjaro Mahogany (lovoa swyanertonii). Oxystigma msoo trees were also found in Mombasa, Kenya but due to severe cutting, they disappeared. They are currently only found in Rau Forest Reserve, according to various studies. Animals: According to a conservator at Rau forest reserve, Mr Moshi Ulomi, the forest reserve has different kinds of animals and that most of them are smallest and are not dangerous, including Black and white colobus monkeys, Blue monkeys, dik-dik, snakes, and butterflies. Largest fresh water spring: There are about six largest fresh water springs, and these are used to irrigate more than 250,000 hectors of Rice farm at the Lowland area in the southern part of the forest where locals live. Most of the visitors at the forest are from German and Spain. In most cases, local tourists are students from primary schools, Universities and colleges based in research, field practical, study tours as well as students pursuing botanical studies. “I receive several visitors who want to tour this forest and indeed, I earn my income from these tourists,’’ says Dingi Hamis, alias, Mr Fantastic, the director of tour guide in Moshi town. His sentiments are not different from those of Karim Ayub. The 32-year old young and charming gentleman says he receives at least four tourists everyday and that the forest has so far helped him to raise his family. Figures from Rau forest reserve according to Mr Ulomi, show that the number of visitors from 2014/2015 was 11 , 2015/2016 was 84 and 213 in 2016/2017. The number rises each year with revenue collection increasing significantly.