Tanzania has recently clinched a grant of 84bn/- from the European Union (EU) to finance a crossborder link of a Tanzania-Zambia energy interconnection project. This is reported on page 3 of the Good Citizen of Wednesday December 16. It is entitled: “EU Extends Sh 84bn for Power Connectivity in Tz”. But that is not all. An official of the French Development Agency (AFD) is reported, to have said, without giving full details, that AFD will soon provide another financial ‘grand’ to Tanzania to establish a solar energy plant project in Shinyanga Region. You will note that in the first instance, the writer used the word “grant”. In the latter instance, the word “grant” seems to have metamorphosed into: “another financial grand”. Now, we do know that there are people in Tanzania who, when confronted with a word ending, or near ending, in “nt”, pronounce this as “nd”. Thus, Fanta will be pronounced “Fanda”. Vincent will be pronounced Vincend, and so on. Could the writer be coming from that area of the country? We cannot tell. Not from (his) names, accompanying the article. We can only say that Tanzania will soon receive another financial grant (not, grand) to finance projects related to energy supply in the country. The official is reported to have said: “Since 2008 ‘up to date’ Tanzania has received a total of TZS 1.9 trillion from AFD supporting the government….. to reduce economic and social inequalities”. Our contention is with the use of the conjunction “since” together with the phrase: “up to date”. “Up to date” is unnecessary and redundant since it is clear enough that the person giving the data is referring to a period, from 2008, ending (say) today. The sentence could be shortened by three words to read: “Since 2008, Tanzania has received a total of TZS 1.9 trillion from AFD...”. On the same page, is a news item entitled: “ACT’s Four Elected Lawmakers Sworn in”, in which the writer of the story informs us as follows: “Four elected Members of Parliament (MPs) from ACT-Wazalendo were finally sworn in yesterday after their party decided to ‘bury hatchets’ regarding ‘the way’ the October 28 2020 General Election was conducted”. “Hatchet” is a small axe with a short handle for use in one hand. The famous idiom is “to bury the hatchet”. Being an idiom, we cannot tamper with it and write of “burying hatchets”. “To bury the hatchet” means to end an argument with someone and become friends again. It has its origins in the 17th century America. Native American peoples would literally bury a hatchet (a cutting tool or axe) in the ground as a declaration of peace when fighting ended. So, talking about burying the hatchet implies that there are adversaries. Groups or countries that were at loggerheads with each other, who have decided to forget their differences and come together again. In the ACT-Wazalendo case cited above, we are not told who the party’s adversary was. With whom were they burying the hatchet? Was it with the National Electoral Commission, for instance? It is not clear. Under such circumstances, the writer should have considered using different words instead of “burying hatchets”. How about saying: “Four elected Members of Parliament (MPs) from ACT-Wazalendo were finally sworn in yesterday after their party decided to ‘set aside its earlier objections’ regarding ‘the way’ the October 28, 2020 General Election was conducted”. Finally, and on page 19 of the same paper, we read some exciting news about a sports festival that took place recently in Kibaha, Coast Region. The news story is entitled: “500 athletes take FutboNet Sports festival by ‘a’ Storm”. “Take by ‘a’ Storm”? Nope. The indefinite article “a” should not be there. To take someone/ somewhere by storm means to be suddenly extremely successful in a place, or popular with someone. So, the 500 athletes took the Sports Festival “by storm” (not “by a storm”). Do you realise, next Saturday will be Boxing Day? OMG! lusuggakironde@gmail.com