THE Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA) has awarded Chief Justice of Tanzania (CJ), Prof Ibrahim Juma, in recognition of his efforts to ensure women and children with special needs get their rights as required on time. Presenting the congratulatory special award to the CJ in his office in Dar es Salaam recently, TAWLA Chairperson Lulu Ng’anakilala said the association recognised the efforts made by Prof Juma to ensure the rights of mothers and children were realised. According to a statement issued by the Directorate of Information and Communications of the Judiciary of Tanzania on Friday, Ms Ng’anakilala also commended the CJ for his efforts to ensure cases related to the administration of estates were disposed of in a timely manner. “We are grateful to you for your continued support to us in ensuring that the rights of women and children are given priority. In this regard, we recognise your sincere efforts and so we have seen it fit to present this special award in recognition of your contribution,” she told the CJ. For his part, Prof Juma thanked TAWLA for the award and assured TAWLA members of collaboration to ensure justice was accessible in a timely manner for all groups in society. In addition, the CJ urged the members to cooperate with the Judiciary of Tanzania in informing members of the public about various court activities, including improvements made to ensure timely access to justice. Prof Juma used the opportunity to appeal to members of the public to ensure they received accurate court information by visiting official news sources, including the Judiciary of Tanzania website. “To obtain accurate court information if the relevant information is not found in newspapers or other media it is advisable to visit official sources of our information, including the Judiciary’s website,” stressed the CJ. Prof Juma also pointed out that through such official sources one could know important information, including knowing the stage at which his or her case had reached. TAWLA is a nongovernmental organisation (NGO) as of 2019 as a result of changes of a legal framework where organisations that deal mainly with communities had to comply with the Non-Government Organisation Act No 24 of 2002 as amended. It was founded in 1989 and was registered in 1990 under the Societies Act, as a guild to promote and advance legal and constitutional rights of women and children and this still stands to date. The aims and objectives of the organisation include advocating gender equality and the promotion of human dignity. Others are the promotion of gender justice through policy, legal and institutional reforms, community action and media engagement. TAWLA is committed to the professional advancement of its members and the promotion of women and children’s rights and good governance. The founding members comprise a group of professional women lawyers who felt the need for an organisation that could promote an environment guaranteeing equal rights and access to justice by all, through focusing on vulnerable and marginalised groups, especially women and children. TAWLA members also recognise the need for women lawyers to foster mutual support for each other in professional advancement and social responsibility.