CHIEF Justice Prof Ibrahim Juma has urged Lushoto-based Institute of Judicial Administration (IJA) to increase ICT literacy among its graduates as the Judiciary of Tanzania is heading towards a paperless system in conducting proceedings. Prof Juma made the remarks during the twentieth graduation held at the college over the weekend, where he was the Guest of Honour, calling on law graduates and practicing magistrates to embrace Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and maximise the opportunities it offers. The Chief Justice emphasised on the need for the College to produce graduates competent in ICT application to keep pace with technological advancement. “I urge you to improve the use of ICT in certificate and Di ploma courses in order to benefit from this rapidly growing technology,” said the head of judiciary. He said the graduates of the Lushoto Judicial College must keep pace with the major revolutions that are taking place in the use of telecommunications in judicial services, including the need to understand how the rules of electronic litigation are applied on a daily basis. Prof Juma said that although the Tanzanian Judiciary has decided that the use of ICT is no longer voluntary, it was necessary for the Arm of State to be able to provide its services more efficiently. He pointed out that the use of ICT has not been maximised compared to the huge investment made so far. The chief justice explained that it was important for the College to provide competent staff in the use of ICT to match the huge investment made in such areas of technology. Quoting the President of the Third Phase Government, the late Benjamin Mkapa in his writings regarding the Tanzania Development Vision 2025, Prof Juma said that the former leader provided a competitive image for the graduates in the 21st Century. According to the Chief Justice, those graduates should be prepared to compete in the competition outlined by the National Development Vision 2025 and expect to work and live in a century that has distinguished itself competitively. The Chairman of the Governing Council of the College, Justice of the Court of Appeal Dr Gerald Ndika, reminded the graduates that the education they received is the beginning of the journey to higher education due to the growth of globalisation. “It is good for you to know that it is your responsibility to continue learning new ways of life to deal with the changes caused by globalisation,” said Justice Ndika.