DESPITE securing a brace against Namungo FC on Monday night, Azam’s Iddi Selemani said the 2-2 stalemate was not what they longed for as such; they must look ahead for other incoming league games. Namungo came from behind twice during the entertaining game at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam to level the score board after the normal period of play and pocket a crucial away one point from a tough opponent. A last minute header by Stephen Say who connected well a perfectly crafted corner kick negotiated by Lucas Kikoti was enough for Namungo to celebrate for a good job well done at a difficult venue. The outcome was rather a continuation of unconvincing results by Azam who have since surrendered the second place slot on the table to defending champions Simba who have now garnered 29 points from 13 matches. For Azam, they have since pocketed 28 points after 15 encounters thereby trailing Simba with one point at the 3rd place, meaning that another interesting league battle will be experienced when these two sides meet before the end of the season’s first round. Speaking after the game, Selemani who had a great match on the day conceded that Namungo is a good team in the contest which gave them a mountanous task. “Football is a game of mistakes and the last minute mistake has given them (Namungo) an equalising goal. I believe that the coach has seen where we performed poorly and will use that to make the team stronger in the next match,” he said. His colleague for Namungo Miza Kristom expressed his happiness for the final results while insisting that they will add value to their next game. “It was a great game and we faced a good team but, in the end, I am satisfied with what we have accumulated. I am sure that our technical bench has pointed out some shortfalls which will be solved to make us stronger during the upcoming matches,” he said. For Namungo, the game was also a good weighing platform ahead of their CAF Confederation Cup duel later this month after succeeding to sail through into the next stage. It has since been a good start for the team’s new coach Hemedi Morocco who took charge of the team succeeding the former coach Hitimana Thiery. Until now, Namungo are 14th on the ladder with 16 points, slowly climbing up the league steps and they have just won four matches out of 12 clashes.