SIRIT Sidpara has joined the list of 35 riders who will participate in the Dar-Moshi Tour to become the second lady to race in the over 500km race. Sirat joins Ruth Wangui who was previously the only lady listed to challenge men riders in the tour. The 552.1 km distances cycling race is scheduled to start from Msasani in Dar es Salaam on December 18th to Moshi in Kilimanjaro on December 20th this year. The organizers are Twende Butiama Cycling club. One of the event’s organisers Gabriel Landa told the ‘Sunday News’ in Dar es Salaam Saturday that preparation for the grand race is on a top gear. Landa said that they are delighted to have registered 36 cyclists including Sirat who announced to join the list yesterday. “We are grateful to see a good response from the participants, we have now 36 confirmations so far, its good number for any event though we hope the number will increase,” he said. Landa called more ladies to join the bandwagon for the health well-being and networking. Other riders who have recently submitted participation are Bonny Kaaya, Camilius Wambura, Dominic Andrea, Frank Mshobozi, Joel John, Mukiza Richard and Uwesu Mngoya. Others who were already confirmed their participation are Abdu Elmahry, Ammar Yunus, Ammon Mwaka, Amon Hendry, Khuzeima Khanbhai, Eden Mushi, Frank Marariki, Godbless Baluhya, Hafeez Thawer, Hesam Thawer, Hillary Edward, Hubert Pius and Hussein Dossajee. Others are Issa Murshid, Kwasi Frimpong, Martin Mchemwa, Murtaza Esmailjee, Omary Makumba, Omary Fire, Peter Nkwabi, Pritesh Dharsi, Rob Mwamamba, Robert Komba, Salehe Mvungi, Salum Kizoka and Shafran Merali. Landa said that the three-day race will have three service stops at Msata in Coast Region, in Same and Moshi in Kilimanjaro. There also slight changes in the tour service stations that have been made to make it more exciting. He, however said the first service stop will be at Mkata 200 km from Msasani in the day 1, and the next day’s stop is Same, about 236 km from where there will be a 105 km distance to the final destination in Moshi. He said that everything was going on well and that they are looking to see more participants before the exciting tour starts.