THE Forum on China- Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), as a mechanism and platform to foster, strengthen and deepen collective dialogue and cooperation between China and Africa on matters of common concern, emphasizing equality, mutual respect and a shared prosperous future reaches its 20th anniversary last month. Against this backdrop, it should be understood that FOCAC is a continuation of Chinese expression of its traditional commitment towards African socioeconomic development, since the birth of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence in 1954 and the Eight Principles for Economic Aid and Technical Assistance in 1964. If the above objectives appear lofty and insurmountable, the opposite is true. At the dawn of its 20th anniversary, FOCAC has attained impressive progress for both Africa and China. Whilst acknowledging the immense progress that FOCAC has attained in Africa since its inception in 2000, this article will focus on the progress and headway in Tanzania-China relationship emanating from FOCAC and will focus on four aspects of this important relationship that are of interest to me: agriculture, trade and industry, education and people-to-people exchanges. First, excellent political and diplomatic relations between Tanzania and China have continued unabated during the past twenty years. The leaderships of Tanzania and China at the highest level have visited each other and held meaningful discussions and dialogues. Presidents, Prime Ministers, Foreign Ministers and other ministers of the two countries as well as senior leaders of the ruling political parties and military have had numerous and momentous engagements. The frequent visits among the political and military leaders gave impetus to increased collective dialogue and joint deliberations covering almost all sectors in Tanzania and China. The FOCAC Ministerial Conference is held every three years, but prior to the Ministerial Conference, the Senior Officials Follow-up Meeting and the Senior Officials Preparatory Meeting are held respectively in the year and a few days beforehand. Moreover, the consultations between the African Diplomatic Corps in China and the Secretariat of the Chinese Follow-up Committee are held at least twice a year. I can emphatically confirm this healthy trend as I was Prime Minister of the United Republic of Tanzania during a good part of the twenty years of FOCAC and was informed of the momentous interactions between Tanzania and China, a trend that hitherto exists to date, with the understandable exception of the slowdown owing to the global COVID-19 pandemic. The triennial summits that are part of the administrative FOCAC mechanism have been held seven times since the inception of FOCAC in 2000. On the civil society space, including peopleto- people exchanges, significant work has been recorded. As the Vice Chairman of the Tanzania- China Friendship Promotion Association (TCFPA), I have personally witnessed over 20 visits to China jointly arranged by our counterparts in China and our association, during the period 2016-2020. Two-way visits by our counterpart associations and follow-up meetings have resulted in multiple projects of public utility, spanning from the building of primary and secondary school classrooms in Mbeya Region, dormitories in Ruangwa, a public library in Kilwa, Lindi Region, school laboratory in Butiama, Mara region, solar power lighting for schools and health centers in peripheral locations of Kagera Region, safe and good-quality fishnets for fishermen in Geita Region, agricultural inputs in Kilosa, Morogoro Region as well as other social uplifting projects such as sending food and medical supplies to areas hit by natural disasters like the floods in Lindi (2020) and the earthquake in Kagera (2016). The TCFPA has also arranged for the Chinese Medical Teams in Tanzania to offer free medicine and treatment to local disadvantaged people in four regions between 2014 and 2019 (Mara, Kagera, Kilimanjaro and Lindi). These are but a few achievements on the people-to-people exchanges and civil society space in Tanzania, emanating from FOCAC in its twenty years’ life. In terms of trade, there have been formidable achievements as a result of impetus emanating from FOCAC programs over the last two decades. According to Prof. He Wenping, Senior Research Fellow at the Institute of West Asian & African Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Chinese investment in Africa surpassed US$ 49.1 billion in the year 2019. That is approximately a one-hundredfold increase since the year 2000. China’s cumulative investment in Africa reached US$ 110 billion and covers all sectors of the continent’s economy. Cooperation in the fields of science and technology, education, health and cultural exchanges have experienced an upward trajectory. In the Tanzania-China economic and trade sphere, according to China State Customs Administration and the Bank of Tanzania, the bilateral trade volume increased from US$ 90.53 million in 2000 to US$ 4.17 billion in 2019. In 2019, Tanzania-China trade volume accounted for 28.58% of Tanzania’s total foreign trade volume, and Tanzania’s exports to China were valued at US$ 359 million, accounting for 6.4% of Tanzania’s total export value in the commensurate period, whilst our imports from China were worth US$ 3.81 billion, accounting for 42.26% of Tanzania’s total import volume. While trade and commerce are vibrant as Tanzania has attained the middleincome- country status, the trade imbalance between Tanzania and China raises eyebrows. Under the FOCAC mechanisms and the bilateral dialogues and discussions between Tanzania and China, I believe this concern is being addressed. One such example is the Trade Agreement signed between the two countries on 26 October 2020 covering soya beans. As a person interested in farming, I am personally glad to take note of this encouraging development. Other agricultural products permitted to be exported to China include sesame, sisal, tobacco and cashew nuts. Avid readers may know that expanding imports from Africa is one of the significant initiatives under the Action Plan of the 2018 FOCAC Beijing Summit. We look forward to seeing more Tanzania products entering the Chinese market, no matter agricultural produce or manufactured items. In terms of investment, according to the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), there are currently over 700 investment projects in Tanzania emanating from China, which are valued at US$ 6 billion and employ around 90,000 Tanzanians. A number of these investment projects are in partnership with Tanzanian business entities and are involved in purchasing supplies and inputs from Tanzania, therefore having a trickle-down effect and linkage to the larger economy of our country. Another area of interest to me is education and knowledge. Under the FOCAC, the numbers of Tanzanian students studying in China and Chinese students studying in Tanzania have increased. This has indeed played an important function towards cultural understanding. Between the year 2000 and 2020, 2,339 Tanzanian students have been provided with full scholarship by the Chinese Government to study in China. In 2019 alone, 259 Tanzanians were granted full scholarship by the Chinese Government, the subjects of their study in China range from hard sciences, medicine to social sciences, business administration, etc. Twenty years of FOCAC have been of great importance to Africa in general and Tanzania in particular. Any meaningful association and relationship between true friends allows space for improvement. FOCAC as a platform to foster meaningful collective dialogue is dynamic and has mechanisms in place to improve relationships and deepen discussions. As such, talks on the balance of trade, the debt burden of African countries and other topics have been held among concerned parties with a view to reach win-win outcomes. I wish FOCAC a Happy 20th Anniversary and many more years of fruitful engagements between China and Africa, so that all parties may live to witness a shared prosperous future.