THE day to day hustle can make us ignore things in our lives that make us fulfilled and happy. Most people choose to do what they do for the sake of money and fail to enjoy the happiness of life. Happiness however results from being satisfied with what we do. Since it is not easy for some people to quit their jobs or lifestyles and assume happiness, our bodies are designed to feel relaxed and happy in certain manageable situations. There are worthwhile things a person can do outside work that provide healthier meaningfulness in their lives. Besides self-care, enjoying the good things surrounding us reduces stress, and enables us appreciate what we have. Selfcare is important for mental and physical wellbeing. Exercise reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease and promotes therapeutic health. For instance, yoga workout is a form of exercise and relaxation most people use to create physical and mental space. Yoga enables one to challenge the body and work through their emotional stumbling blocks. Over the years, yoga has helped individuals to shift focus and energise from the inside out. One can choose from online classes, group practices or self-practice. An individual can work out in a total silent environment or with soft music, which are the best relaxation environments. Meditation through yoga recharges the spirit and enables one to find a little peace in some silence. It might improve your mood and attitude. The result always brings confidence, happier and healthier beings. Appreciating the good things that happen in your life is associated with lesser signs of heart and other diseases. One can reflect on both little and big things that happen in their life. You can appreciate simple things like getting a good morning greeting, being on time for an office meeting or a glass of water. These kind gestures we receive bring happiness if appreciated. Let the positive appreciation bubble up to help increase positive emotions, which can make one healthier and happier. Laugh through such experiences and smile at strangers to appreciate the life around you. Being grateful on a regular basis for every good deed done to oneself, enables a person to realise and acknowledge the good things in life even when bad ones are happening. Gratitude help improve the body and soul. Appreciating the people in our lives and loving them creates strong interpersonal friendships. The giving of love creates more happiness than the receiving of love. A mature person smiling at a little kid gives him or her unexplained happiness. Helping someone is a way some people appreciate life, even when they require help. It makes them feel good when they put a smile on a homeless persons’ face, an elder in the society or orphans. Reading specific literature is also therapeutic. The idea behind this is to use a person’s connection to the content of a book, written text or a piece of poetry. I have a routine of giving myself an hour to read with a cup of coffee before bedtime, or when travelling. We however have those who have a tendency to dive straight into work after waking up, which is not the healthiest of habits. As human beings, we feel we have to be always working, constantly moving and it is detrimental to our mental health. I have found calmness and happiness in reading every night and it has sharpened my skills in my work as productive. Travelling ignites inspiration and creativity. By providing new experiences and breaking monotony, travelling exposes one to new environments and allows one to meet new people and cultures all over the world. Spending time with family and friends is important, and travelling to see them is something we all do regularly. It does not matter whether one is travelling to a local Saadani park in Bagamoyo, or to another country; travelling is something that makes some people incredibly happy. Research indicates that travel not only provides satisfying experiences but also boosts our immunity. When one is in unusual environment, the body is exposed to new kinds of bacteria, therefore generating antibodies. These antibodies protect the body from future diseases. For better experiences and adventure, travelling in groups has brought more exciting and happy outcomes. It builds stronger relationships and deepens them with friends or family when out on adventure. Sharing moments with the people in our lives, and even strangers creates greater closeness thus healthy and happy life. Moreover, the extra rush of sun while outdoor touring, hiking on Mt Kilimanjaro or relaxing is a healthy exercise for the body, and also exposes Vitamin D which is good for strong bones. Doctors recommend some patients for leisure walks as a form of therapy to reduce stress and open their inner thoughts or calm them. Travelling takes one away both mentally and physically from environments of pressure of everyday life. Pleasurable experiences increase the serotonin levels in the body hence improved moods. For instance, just a thought of a planned trip can make one feel happier. The new perspectives of the people around us benefit our mind. It makes one open minded and culturally diversified and tolerant. Plants as well bring a lot of joy and serenity, and seeing them grow is some fulfillment to the soul. One can adapt a daily routine of caring for their gardens and it is exciting to see new growth every day; it’s thrilling when a new leaf unfurls or a flower blooms. Caring for and learning about plants is something that makes some people immensely happy, similar to being in a very serene leafy environment. Let’s not forget to appreciate little things in life that make our life happier. Remember a happy nation is a healthy nation. The Author, Racheal Masibo, is an Assistant Lecturer at St John’s University of Tanzania (SJUT)-School of Nursing, P.O BOX 47 Dodoma Tanzania. Email: rackelmasibo@yahoo.com Mobile: 0717513598