THE way President John Magufuli handled the Covid-19 pandemic demonstrated yet again that he is in a way a genius global leader. While most of global and regional leaders were panicking and locking down businesses, including imposing curfews to their people, President Magufuli chose to go the other path and stood by it. One of the important traits of a good leader is to provide leadership to people on what he/she believes in and remains focused. The President did that against all odds. The first thing he did was to allay fears to Tanzanians that Covid-19 is a disease just like any other ailment, noting that people ought not to panic because fear is more dangerous than coronavirus itself and this statement helped a great deal to ease public tension. He refused to 'lockdown' his people and businesses, arguing that no one knows for how long the pandemic would last. "Locking down people and closing businesses would have greater social and economic impact than the impact of the disease itself," the President said. While insisting and reminding people to observe basic Covid-19 hygienic procedures, such as frequently washing hands and wearing masks, he urged them to carry on with their own normal businesses, especially workers. This move helped millions of Tanzanians, who depend on daily activities to earn a living and make their ends meet. Second, President Magufuli was the first leader to doubt the efficacy of facemasks imported from abroad, where instead he encouraged local industries to produce masks and tailors to design clothing masks. It did not take long before we started hearing other countries complaining that some of their masks imported from certain countries were contaminated with coronavirus. He also doubted the accuracy of test kits and laboratory equipment used to test the coronavirus. To this effect, he submitted samples taken from a goat, a sheep, a pawpaw, car oil and a bird, where the results were surprisingly weird as some of the samples tested positive and others negative. No one else in the world had thought about this trick! Third, when he directed government officials to stop quarantining people arriving from abroad, people were surprised. But he was right. There was no difference between releasing someone today or after 14 days, when the pandemic is already spreading at community level. What would make the difference is the attitude of arriving passengers when they mix with people in the community. If they observe basic Covid-19 hygienic procedures, they remain safe and protect others, regardless if they were allowed to integrate on arrival or after 14 days. The President also stopped government officials from fumigating and spraying the city with chlorine, saying it was not an effective way to combat the pandemic, an argument that was later supported by one of the WHO senior official. Fourth, while the majority of our neighbours borrowed huge sums of money from the World Bank to address the pandemic, President Magufuli did not want to fall into the debt trap and instead he called on the Briton Wood institution to grant debt relief or debt deferments to countries instead of burdening them with new loans. "African countries' economic capacity is not the same as that of developed countries," Dr Magufuli told a televised meeting of top security organs. He singled out the World Bank, which has been offering new lending to nations on the continent to help them tackle the health crisis. Tanzania pays 200bn/- to the World Bank every month and the President called on the global financial institution to allow Tanzania use it to combat Covid-19. This did not take long before the IMF Executive Board approved $14.3 million debt relief to the United Republic of Tanzania Under the Catastrophe Containment and Relief Trust. Fifth, President Magufuli refused to close Tanzania borders. One of the reasons why the President did not close borders, including Dar es Salaam Port was the fact that Tanzania borders eight countries. He said he did not want to affect the welfare of neighbours. "We share borders with about eight countries and if we close borders, we will be destroying their economies," Magufuli added. Most of these countries are land-locked depending on Tanzania for their transit goods and for agricultural produce. This demonstrated the spirit of a brother's keeper. Sixth, the government of Tanzania objected to adopting strict lockdown protocols or restricting the movement of its citizens to contain the spread of the virus as done by other countries. This appeared as a radical and unconventional approach to many, including the Tanzanian people, other countries, the World Health Organisation and the Africa Union. It is now evident that when Covid-19 will disappear, Tanzania will emerge as a winner as her economy is likely to rebound faster than other countries in the east African region. The good thing is also that while other countries will be swimming into debt, Tanzania will be free from such additional debts.