WITH the speeding for immunisations for Covid-19 pandemic few weeks ago as we approach the end of the year 2020, it is now clear, within therapeutic sector, the means to have break-on and if doable a control on the epidemic spread have started. Control to slow down the spread, particularly, during the fear of a second wave of covid-19 and taking courageous to live with the virus, while taking all compulsory healthy deterrents is critical now for a number of reasons. As year 2020 comes to an end, the covid-19 disease has critically anguished the world economy all way to specific national economy with severe costs impacting all people. Stirring rapidly across boundaries, along the fundamental veins of the worldwide economy, the increase of the virus has furthered from the underlying interconnectedness and vices of globalisation, propelling a global health emergency into a worldwide economic shock that by now as we approach the end of 2020, has hit the most exposed the hardest, some directly and other indirectly. In my valuation budding from the natural environment and paralysing our societies and our economies and businesses, the coronavirus disease demonstrates the interdependence not only hidden in the Sustainable Development Goals, but disrupting global and regional efforts to achieve them. Thus, much as speed to immunisation start to be performed, this initiative gestures some kind of return to normality in our normal way of life, nevertheless, the intense and pace of the development of the inoculations, in my view, will need to be tallied by production and distribution that can reach less disadvantaged nations that for some reasons might be seen to be left out. Whilst it is rational, and well taken, that it will take a sizeable amount of time until mass immunisations have occurred universally, covering all areas touched by the virus, it is my hope, authorities particularly in our east Africa region should know that, they are in a better locus to plan and re-think projections for the economic revival. Connotation, that there will be a need for government to revisit expenditure to reduce the risk of long-lasting impairment to the economy from the shockwave of this worldwide epidemic, which has not only caused shrinkages in GDP growth rates in many nations but, unmatched consequences affecting each and every sector in contemporary history for most economies. Research reports by wellrespected world bodies the like of World bank and IMF signal that, both for industrialised and unindustrialised markets, the national output of most countries will contract by nearly six per cent as the year 2020 ends, excluding China which is predicted to grow as more businesses open up. Broaden examination, signifies that the speed of recovery is vastly going to be distinctive. While for industrialised markets, GDP is predicted to be a sizeable -4.7 per cent before the pre-epidemic level envisioned in 2019, for unindustrialised economies, covering our economic region, excepting China, the overall analysis signals overall loss in output to staggering at -8.1 per cent. Although many central bank policies, across many nations have by now already signalled a prolonged recovery process, to kick-start credit markets to function towards positive trajectory growth, central banks might be strained to keep interest rates at a very low rates until at least the end of 2025. While within SADC regions and other economic regional block within the southern hemisphere are wrestling with means to put in place supportable pandemic emergency recovery plan, elsewhere research indicates that central banks in industrialised world has protracted its epidemic backup plan until end of first quarter 2022, with constant ingenuities of injecting cash under various programmes, until at least the end of 2023. Grounded on such gage, it is clear that such countries’ central banks are backing-up their economy with relaxed monetary policy for the next three years and in my view this is a contemplation of the scale of economic damage from the epidemic. In my opinion, looking ahead, regardless heavily or slightly affected by the pandemic, nations will need in addition to relax monetary measures, fiscal policies that will boost growth to avoid the loss in output from charming permanent status. In order to return to normal economic status, my suggestion, subsequent extensive review on what could help nations recovery from covid-19 pandemic, the nation’s expenditure should be designed to jobs creation. It is important to target job creation because from an economic point of view, idleness lowers growth potential and associated multiplier effects. Hence powerfully, it is advocated, government spending will need to fund jobs invention ventures and to widen labour force participation in the economy. Keeping viable businesses at any costs through tailored support, which are also employers, is another important aspect, should emerging nations aim at recovery their economy competitively. For instance, measures such as creating a permanent statebacked loan scheme for SMEs and scalable start-ups can be a good start. During covid-19 pandemic, the IMF has changed its emphasis to encourage countries that can afford to do so to borrow to invest, shifting the emphasis from fiscal discipline to promoting economic growth that can take advantage of record low interest rates. In their newest world economic standpoint, the IMF estimated that during times of high insecurity such as a global epidemic, 1 per cent of GDP spent on public infrastructure would generate 2.7 per cent in GDP growth and raise employment by 1.2 per cent after two years as well as boost private investment. Meticulously, it denotes that such percentages translate into between two to eight jobs for each million dollar invested in traditional infrastructure. But, if it were on green infrastructure, such as green electricity, there would be a bigger impact of five to 14 jobs created by every $1 million invested by the government. In short, creating jobs and boosting growth would need to focus on the extraordinary amounts of government spending on both near-term needs and longer-term aims. If governments are to distinguish between current and capital spending, then bond investors will need to assess whether there will be a longerterm growth impact from the latter spending. Raising the growth rate of the economy relative to the increase in debt would help with the debt-to-GDP ratio typically used in debt sustainability analysis. It won’t be the final word on public finances, but creditors may assess the countries, which have spent strategically, more favourably. As year 2020 ends and the speed of vaccine production and distribution gain pace around the world, for countries such as Tanzania, it is important to look ahead and start planning more rigorously for the recovery phase, given we didn’t lockdown our economy during on-going pandemic uncertainty. Since we are linked to world web in many ways, regaining fully from this pandemic won’t be easy. The health, economic and social consequences are far-reaching. As year 2020 ends, we need to prepare to take on year 2021 aware of the fact that covid-19 poses an enormous challenge to development aspirations. It is an unambiguous aidemémoire of shared defencelessness and reveals the need for real change. Nevertheless, in my outlook, it can also be a tone point to alter course and build a more robust new normal. Much will however, hang on the policies embraced and ability to synchronise, both at the international and national level approaches. Thus, notwithstanding the unattractive effects outlook, it is still possible to turn pandemic crisis period into the finest hour of rethinking on measures and approach we take in building a more all-encompassing, spirited and sustainable future.