THE Zanzibar National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC) has saluted President Hussein Ali Mwinyi for a good start in office by introducing admirable work plan and having a cabinet that is accepted by the people of Zanzibar. “We praise him for a good start, because many people, including members of the business community have hope and trust in the new government. We hope that Dr Mwinyi will fulfill his promises for the development of Zanzibar,” Mr Ali Amour- acting President of the Chamber said at a press conference. He said that steps already taken by Dr Mwinyi’s government to improve the economy by partnering with the private sector are convincing and raise hope for the people of Zanzibar, as the chamber promised to work closely with the government to move the islands forward economically. Flanked by the ZNCC board members and director Mr Hamad Hamad, the Chamber’s current boss unveiled a plan dubbed ‘Envisioning the Zanzibar Private Sector- Post Covid-19’ which outline how it will work with the government in realising the goal. Mwinyi has fully recognised that the private sector is an engine to economy growth. According to the ZNCC President, the plan includes establishing serious business clusters to reduce the number of disorganised and scattered entrepreneurs or trade organisations in the country; and developing the Economic zones of Fumba and particularly Micheweni in Pemba which is still without investors. He also mentioned that the plan includes introducing ‘capital account’ and off-shore banking like in Mauritius, Dubai, and Singapore; promote local content driven economy to provide space for citizens engagement in economy building; and skills development for youth and women in Zanzibar so that they can produce quality products. Mr Amour urged local and foreign investors to utilise the opportunities created by president Mwinyi, saying that the new government is showing commitment to work with the private sector. He said there are many areas that interested persons can invest in Zanzibar, which include the blue economy (marine, transport, fishing), tourism, construction, and light industries.