THIRTY-FOUR-YEAR-OLD Consolatha Emmanuel, a resident of Bukoba Rural District’s Karabaine village, is among few women who have ventured in into agriculture. However, inexperience in greenhouse farming was a challenge when she started maize farming. But while her skills improved as time went by, it was the postharvest losses that she says was unable to control. After harvesting, like many other farmers, she faced the problem of preserving the quality and quantity of her crops before they reached the consumer. “I had invested a lot in that business: money, time, even emotion. But when you fall at every hurdle, it reaches a point where you just give up. I concluded I better quit and try a different business,” she says. Tanzania Association of Professional Business Development Services Providers (TAPBDS) Company Ltd has come to Consolatha’s rescue by addressing post-harvest losses. Recently, the company presented 15 threshing machines, 11 motor cycles and seven tractors worth 151m/- to small and medium entrepreneurs from Kagera and Kigoma regions. TAPBDS acting Chief Executive Officer Mr Edwin Mengistu said that a six-month pilot project to cost USD 236,000 was being implemented in seven regions of Iringa, Njombe, Kagera, Ruvuma, Kigoma, Mbeya and Katavi. Under an agreement between the farmers and Agra Company, a beneficiary would pay 40 per cent of the cost while Agra would pay 60 per cent. At a function held at Bunazi township, Missenyi District Commissioner Denice Mwila said that the farm technologies were of great importance because they assist farmers to improve crop quality, address poverty alleviation and also save time wasted in threshing crops manually. “On behalf of the government, I sincerely thank TAPBDS and Agra Ltd for the timely support. Post-harvest losses claim more than 30 per cent of grains each harvesting season. This can cost a smallholder family up to 40 per cent of the total income,” he said. Each threshing machine has the capacity to thresh between 150-200 bags of maize and beans per day while a smallholder farmer used to thresh about 10 bags a week. I had to hire an assistant and pay him 8,000/- to thresh one bag of beans manually, recalls Consolatha. Tapita Solomon, the Missenyi District Agricultural Officer noted that the problem of post-harvest losses in the agriculture sector is huge. Poor handling of crops and lack of agronomic practices also contributes to this problem. She also pointed out that poor transportation and storage facilities and low quality packaging contributes to the problem. However, she is hopeful that cooperation between the government and the private sector could help resolve the problem. Public- Private Partnership could invest in infrastructure development, like construction of pack houses and investment in agro-processing. Huge post-harvest losses are a threat to food security, incomes and livelihoods of many households in sub-Saharan Africa. In Tanzania, studies have revealed that post-harvest losses range between 15-40 per cent depending on the type of crop. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) estimates that approximately 1.3 billion tonnes of food every year gets lost or wasted. This amounts to about US $680 billion in industrialized countries and US $310 billion in developing countries. While in industrialised countries, more than 40 per cent of losses occur at the retail and consumer stage, in developing countries, by contrast, more than 40 per cent of food losses occur at post-harvest and processing levels. The government in collaboration with other stakeholders has developed the national post-harvest management strategy. For the country to achieve post-harvest loss reduction by at least 50 per cent (as per the Malabo commitment), the strategy needs to be effectively implemented. Annual value of post-harvest losses for grains alone exceeds USD 4 billion. In Tanzania domestic food production is barely sufficient to meet national food needs. Many households experience protracted periods of food shortage. As a result, over USD 200 million is spent annually to import food. Managing post-harvest losses could potentially offset this food deficit. Since the food crisis that began in 2006, the global food situation has become a critical issue. There is now global consensus that mitigating food losses that occur between harvesting and consumption offers the single, most enormous opportunity for contributing to hunger alleviation. However, with changes in demographics and consumer needs that have taken place in the recent past, governments, development agencies, donors and research institutions must adopt new PH loss mitigation strategies adapted to specific conditions. Demand-driven approaches that explore worth in value addition and alternative uses of postharvest products and by-products should be given attention.