AS we come to the end of the eventful year 2020, the United Republic of Tanzania has a lot to celebrate. Unfortunately, time and space cannot allow me to identify all the achievements, but for this column today, I am picking only one for you my reader to reflect on with me. The picked agenda is about the good will of President Hussein Mwinyi, which is well interpreted in the recent formation of the Zanzibar government of national unity. This unity government has brought hope not only to Zanzibaris and the United Republic of Tanzania at large, but to the international community also, because many view it as a purveyor of better moves for the island and its overall standing in the region and beyond. Interestingly, modern political scientists have envisaged the formation of unity government as the panacea to political deadlocks. If that is the reality, then Zanzibar and the United Republic of Tanzania should be proud of the step President Hussein Mwinyi and CCM have taken. Well, in Zanzibar, the current prominent tone and spirit is very clear. They say, together they are united, meaning there is no marriage of convenience whatsoever. They are strong and will never allow anything to make their government fragile and acrimonious. It is my hope that this remains an honest commitment to all involved. What we read and hear is that for Mwinyi, Seif and their followers, this is a transitional arrangement with no risk of disintegrating. This is good news indeed. If this motif is carried forward, surely the Zanzibaris will enjoy peace and progress, and in my view, political, social and economic turbulence of the past is something which shall not be allowed to happen again. Gladly so, and on a similar note, it was so uplifting to hear and learn from First Vice-President Maalim Seif’s hope when he clearly acknowledged President Mwinyi’s sincere commitment to this and the already happening political process which both agenda are geared into reflecting and shaping the distribution of power in the Zanzibar society. So, bravo to all who have contributed to this milestone as Zanzibar accommodates all participating political players in government structures. My title suggests that this is a bright deal for a bright future. In its extended form, it is a promising deal with myriads of prospects for democracy and development. I deliberately use these terms to encourage, inspire and support the move, but also to inform, warn and counsel all involved in this new political expedition, to remember that though it has just started, it also has a long way to go. They must keep moving, and moving in the right direction. Indeed, a long way to go because everyone involved shall have to ensure that there is maximum commitment, earnestness and sincerity with clear and honest judgements. This proposal reminds me of the words of wisdom of James Michael Surowiecki (April 30, 1967), an American journalist and former staff writer at the New Yorker, who once said; when our imperfect judgments are aggregated in the right way, our collective intelligence is often excellent. Yes, bright deal for a bright future. Of course with myriads of prospects for democracy and development. I am talking about a commitment which shall need personal but also collective good judgment. To interpret my suggestion, I use by quoting both Danish and Chinese proverbs; one should speak little with others and much with oneself (Danish) and when you say one thing, the clever person understands three (Chinese). Our leaders have a huge role to play in this. What is needed therefore is wisdom. And wisdom is not only important, but has its way of applying it. William Wordsworth (1770-1850) an English Romantic poet has a brilliant proposal; wisdom is oftentimes nearer when we stoop than when we soar. All leaders in whatever capacity shall need to be honest to each other. To use the bible wisdom, they shall need to be innocent as doves (Matthew 10:16). This bright deal, as I call it, will only help people of Zanzibar to see, locate and make use of the opportunities of, again, what I call myriads of prospects for democracy and development. So it is a new era in Zanzibar. The government of national unity is, in my view, a bright deal for democracy and development. This is an era of restoring freedom, justice and care which should be reflected in the economic progress. After all, new eras don’t come about because of swords, they’re created by the people who wield them, said Nobuhiro Nishiwak, a Japanese manga artist born May 26, 1970. I know I may sound too optimistic while the work of the government of national unit is just beginning its journey. But there is a reason for it. The goodwill which has been shown by the new leader has the potential to offer better opportunities and advantage of strengthening or even bringing peace and cooperation. And President Mwinyi has made it clear that he will create a government that is able to achieve peace and social order and maintain the dignity of all citizens. For him, this is an opportune time to take stock and create a bright future for Zanzibar. Zanzibaris and indeed wananchi of the United Republic of Tanzania are hopeful and indeed anticipative as they wait to see doors opening for inclusion at the social and economic level of their union. So here is an epoch where all those who will be invited to work with President Mwinyi and first Vice-President Seif will never be tempted to neglect poverty and refuse to deal with the question of social justice and livelihood. I think I am right in saying no one expects any of President Mwinyi’s appointees to undermine the new development process for the good of all. They should and will be able to do wonders because of the very well-known significance of rich values of the island. So my prayer is this, the journey will enhance prospects of national stability, integration and development. I reiterate, this is what the Zanzibaris want. This is not the journey which is set to see serious drawbacks and challenges in administering the government of national unity. Zanzibaris, from all walks of life do not want political, social economic doldrums any more. This is a new era of responsibility. ______ Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti- Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997