TWO young Germans, Justus Falkensten and Rica Rausechenberg were among about 500 youth who gathered at Nungwi coastal village in Unguja Island to celebrate the International Volunteer Day (IVD) in Tanzania. “It is amazing, volunteering and enjoying stay in a country without Covid-19 and lockdown,” said Falkensten who said he would be travelling back home soon and expects to take five-day quarantine in Germany. He was in Nungwi village in the first four and a half weeks where he volunteered in doing environmental and social works in schools where he also taught English and about waste management. He also spent time in Kitogani village in south Unguja in the ‘Mother Nurture Camp’ where he volunteered on environment works in a local project for children. Ms Rica Rausechenberg was in Nungwi for two weeks after camping in Kitogani village. “I have enjoyed volunteering. I gained a lot of experience working with local people, said Ms Rausechenberg." According to data in the Zanzibar Ministry responsible for youth, and education, Zanzibar has been receiving young volunteers from different parts of the world who spend a few weeks working in schools and villages on different activities including environment conservation, teaching English and entrepreneurship studies. To mark IVD 2020 in Tanzania (Nungwi village), the United Nations Volunteer (UNV) Programme in Tanzania partnered and collaborated with the government and more than 25 NGOs including Volunteer Involving Organizations. Over 500 Volunteers from all walks of life/ formal and informal including Youth in Zanzibar and Tanzania Mainland were mobilized including from Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Kigoma, Dodoma, Mwanza, Arusha, Morogoro and host Zanzibar. According to Mr Christian Mwamanga, country coordinator, UNV Tanzania, Volunteers carried out various activities in Nungwi Zanzibar to celebrate the IVD: Voluntary blood donation; Volunteer presentations comprising of success stories; and Volunteer information Clinics and exhibition sessions.’ Other activities were to Volunteer Edutainment Sports aiming at instilling the value of both mental and physical health; Presentation of Volunteer awards and recognition; and TV and Radio talk shows to raise awareness on volunteerism. Mr Mwamanga said, volunteerism was being inspired by Tanzania’s deep-rooted values on volunteering and its cultural philosophy of Ujamaa. “The word Ujamaa comes from the Swahili word which means ‘family hood’, ‘extended family’, ‘brotherhood’; it exerts that a person becomes a person through the people or community - African socialism,” he said . Mr Mwamanga also mentioned that the UN volunteers hosted by the 23 UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes in Tanzania contributed to the development efforts of UN System in Tanzania. “Having served as a UN Volunteer at the beginning of my career with the UN, I bear first-hand witness to the enormous benefits of volunteerism, and its impact in achieving sustainable human development globally,” said UNDP Resident Representative in Tanzania, Ms Christine Musisi. United Nations Resident Coordinator, Zlatan Milišić, said IVD was an opportunity to promote volunteerism, support volunteer efforts and recognize volunteer contributions to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). He said that on IVD, the world celebrates volunteering as a powerful means of implementing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “This was recognized in the 2015 UN Resolution on integrating volunteering into peace and development,” he said. “UN Reports indicate that progress in achieving the SDGs is slow, with developing countries facing an average annual funding gap of about 2.5 trillion US dollars. Volunteers make up a critical human capacity resource that helps close this gap. However, despite their selfless actions, volunteers have been under-valued, unrecognized and unaccounted for several decades,” he said. The UN resident coordinator said of the estimated one billion volunteers globally, many mitigate the impacts of inequality by providing support and services to those who are in need. “On IVD 2020, we thank volunteers for their actions and showcase the impact of volunteering during the Covid- 19 crisis,” he said. It has been recognized that volunteers worldwide have acted against the direct threat posed by Covid-19 and wider challenges in a significant outpouring of solidarity. The theme for this year is, Together We Can through Volunteering! The Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Special Department) Mr Masoud Ali Mohamed, officiated the celebration on behalf of President Hussein Ali Hassan Mwinyi.