THE new leaders of the Tanzania Women Miners Association (TAWOMA) have pledged to boost income of women engaged in mining activities countrywide. They made the pledge after they were elected to lead the organization for the next five years in a tenure that ends in 2025. The election that was recently conducted in Dodoma, saw Ms Gilly Raja emerging victorious as the new chairperson, replacing Ms Eunice Ngele, who led the association for the past five years. Elaborating, they also pledged to address challenges facing women miners in a bid to help them improve their livelihoods and as well boost the country’s economy. The election also saw Ms Salma Kundy being elected as their new Secretary General. However, speaking after the election Ms Raja said it was time to help women so that they fight poverty, adding that the sector contributes immensely to the country’s economy. Currently, the mining sector’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated at 4.8per cent. “Our intention as new leaders is to lift women from poor to higher status of lives through mining,’’ she said, noting that there was a need to increase value chain in mining activities especially gemstones in the country. To ensure that TAWOMA seek a market in the mining sector for the womenfolk, she said from now on, the association would start convening a series of meetings with them, where other stakeholders will also be involved. In the same note, the association’s Secretary General, Ms Kundy who was elected unanimously by the members to serve for the second term said she will make sure TAWOMA establish branches countrywide, beginning with Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Arusha and Mwanza. According to her, the branches she called shops will be important in helping women miners to sell their mineral products, adding: “We want to make sure that we help women in the mining sector to get out of poverty.” TAWOMA’s vision is to eliminate poverty while creating new jobs for women and youths within the mining sector. Founded on August 22, 1997, the association also supports education of women miners on topics such as dangers in the mining sector, health and safety, and the use of chemicals, such as cyanide and mercury for gold mining, and its effects on their health and the environment. TAWOMA's main purpose is to develop and promote women miners and mining communities and equally, address the problems of disorganised mining including economic hardships, poverty alleviation and the general needs of members. The association teams up with other national and International organisations to achieve its goals, and citing the Southern Eastern Minerals Centre (SEAMIC), University of Dar es Salaam (Geology Department), and Tanzania Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA), she also mentioned others as Tanzania Chamber of Energy and Minerals, Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), MTL Consultants Limited, Gemological Institute of America (GIA), PACT TZ, UNECA and the Small Scale Gemstone Mining Cluster.