THERE is high demand for agricultural and livestock products in Comoros, with Comoros Ambassador to Tanzania, Dr Ahamada Mohamed calling on Tanzanian businesspeople to take advantage of the market. The ambassador said the Tanzanian business community could venture into exporting processed agricultural livestock products into Comoros, taking advantage of the current government efforts towards industrialisation. "Comoros need more agricultural products and meat from Tanzania," he stated, noting that it was unfortunate that Tanzanian traders were exporting live cows to Comoros, something which is more expensive than transporting meat. The ambassador was speaking on Friday in Dar es Salaam on the sidelines of a meeting meant to showcase investment opportunities to diplomatic representatives to Tanzania. He said the relationship between Comoros and Tanzania dates back since the independence of his country, and the two countries have since then maintained good relations. With the introduction of Air Tanzania (ATCL) flights to Comoros, there are over 1000 Comorians travelling between Tanzania and Comoros every day. The Comoros come to Tanzania for medical services, tourism, business and other services. However, the Ambassador noted that more is needed to be done to strengthen trade and economic ties between the two countries based on their development visions. Whereas Tanzania has development vision 2025, the Comoros implements its development vision 2030. The Ambassador said with each development vision focusing on industrialisation, it was ideal for both countries to see the type of industrial products to trade between them. "The two governments have to sit together and discuss areas for strengthening cooperation," he said. In his presentation over investment opportunities available in Comoros, Mr Ali Chamsoudine, a member of the executive secretary of monitoring the Paris conference said there was potential for investment in the transport sector. Mr Chamsoudine informed that their country needs investors to invest in maritime transport to promote inter-island trade. The country targets to reach a total of 200,000 maritime travellers annually by 2030, up from current 66,000 travelers and 240,000 tonnes of conventional goods from the current 80,000 tonnes. On the other hand, Comoros needs investors to invest in the energy sector under the Public Private Partnership (PPP). In her remarks, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) representative in Comoros, Ms Fenella Forst pointed out that UNDP was proud to support development in Comoros. "It is clear that for a country with a small population like Comoros, it should involve its whole population, including the Diaspora, for it to achieve its development goals," Ms Forst noted.