A COUNTRYWIDE power disconnection operation to individuals and institutions that owe Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) starts on Sunday (December 13, 2020), the government has announced. The operation that was ordered by Minister for Energy, Dr Merdard Kalemani on Saturday is aimed at collecting over 180bn/- in unsettled bills in the hands of the debtors. The Minister issued the order to Tanesco during his first meeting here on Saturday with members of boards of institutions under the ministry. Tens of thousands of individuals and public institutions with unpaid electricity bill are likely to be affected beginning today. Dr Kalemani said there is over 182bn/- of unsettled electricity bills to the state power utility firm—Tanesco, in which 3.6bn/- involves ordinary customers. "I want all customers with outstanding debts to be disconnected immediately today.  This is regardless whether it is the ministry of water or health institution," he ordered. The minister said Tanesco needs such monies to implement other electricity projects, including connecting new customers. He also issued an eight-month ultimatum to the management of Tanesco to connect all regions to the power grid, saying it will help cut operating costs. Initially, Kigoma and Katavi regions haven't been connected to the state power grid, prompting the government to spend over 4bn/- and 1.6bn/- respectively to power the areas. "This is unfortunate, since with all such spending, the government only makes 800m/- in Kigoma and 400m/- in Katavi," he said. Tanesco Board Chairman, Dr Alexander Kyaruzi admitted that the company has already started working on the 398km power distribution line which will connect the two regions to the power supply. Dr Kyaruzi said Tanesco is also exploring easy way to implement four more electricity projects, including Lumakari (222 megawatts), Luhuji (358 megawatts) and Malagarasi (50 megawatts). Late last month, the board of directors of the African Development Bank approved a $120 million loan to fund the construction of a 50 MW hydropower plant in the country, which will provide reliable renewable energy to households, schools, clinics and small and medium-sized enterprises in Kigoma region. The government embarked on massive construction of Nyerere Hydroelectric Power Project (NHPP)—the 2115megawatts project on Rufiji river. The project is expected to be completed in June 2022, according to the minister, which will make the total number of energy generated to 3715.41MW. Dr Kalemani said the current production is 1602.41MW while demand is 1118MW. He warned managers of Tanesco of unnecessary power interruptions, saying it will cost their titles. "Let me make it clear, this ministry will be guided by speed, innovation and correctness," he said. In another development, the minister said delays in connecting new customers who have made payments must stop. Deputy Minister for Energy, Stephen Byabato said unnecessary power interruptions has been too much, especially in remote areas. He ordered Tanesco to publish all costs related to power connectivity on their notice board to increase transparency.