THE year 2020 which ends today was, in many significant respects, an extraordinary year; in view of the seemingly extraordinary events which occurred in the course of the year; especially to me personally, but also to the whole of our great nation. Thus, as we say goodbye to 2020, a brief review of the most memorable events which occurred during this year would, I am sure, be quite in order. My version of these extraordinary events is presented in the paragraphs that follow here below, both at the personal level, and at the national level. At the personal level, there were the twin, unexpected events, when I received two personal recognitions that unexpectedly came my way during this year. These were:- (a) My surprise selection to present the traditional symbols of ‘accession to power’ to President John Pombe Magufuli, on the occasion of his accession to the Presidency for the second term, on 5th November, 2020; and (b) My other, even greater surprise, of being awarded the prestigious honorary degree of Doctor of Laws (Honoris causa), of the equally prestigious University of Dar es Salam (the country’s premier institution of higher learning, and the mother of all Tanzanian Universities), at its 50th graduation ceremony on 8th December, 2020. Information about my selection to present the traditional symbols of access to power to President Magufuli, was relayed to me by letter signed by the Permanent Secretary responsible for the Public Service in the President’s Office; which also enquired whether I was willing and ready to accept that assignment. I of course promptly replied in the affirmative, and enthusiastically started preparing myself appropriately for the grand occasion, which took place at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma, on 5th November, 2020. The award of the said honorary degree was, indeed, a great honour, as well as a moral booster for me. In his letter of invitation to me to the graduation event, the Vice Chancellor, Prof William Anangisye, kindly disclosed that the University had decided to grant the Award “in recognition of your contribution in advancing knowledge and development of the Legal system in Tanzania”. In my routine acceptance speech, I humbly recalled the series of opportunities that were kindly given to me by the relevant superior authorities, that enabled me to make that contribution. The first was when I was appointed Chairman of the Judicial System Review Commission (the Msekwa Commission), in 1975. The second opportunity was when I was appointed a member of the Law Reform Commission of Tanzania in 1983, on which I served continuously until 2005; and the third opportunity was when I was appointed a member of the Legal Sector Reform Task Force in 1993, which completed its short assignment in 1994. On all of these Commissions, I was working together with some renowned Judges and other legal luminaries of the time, and our respective reports to the Government did indeed produce tangible positive changes in the country’s legal Sector. My presenter, Professor Rwekaza Sympho Mukandala, said it all when he read the citation to introduce me to the Chancellor and the assembled congregation. “From now on, we will address you as Dr Pius Msekwa,” declared Chancellor Jakaya Kikwete. I am very much obliged. And thereafter, upon my return to my cozy home in Ukerewe, I took the first available opportunity to execute my thanksgiving obligation to the almighty God, by promptly paying my annual tithe (zaka) to the parish priest; as well as making arrangements for a thanksgiving Holy Mass to be held at my residence, which will be preceded by a dedicated, celebratory private dinner for a few invited ‘bons vivants’ (and appropriately accompanied by a display of fireworks), in remembrance of this truly historic event of the award of an honorary degree, award event; and in humble obedience to the dictum “Mshukuruni Mungu kwa kila jambo”. At the national level, there was, first, the devastating coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) which invaded the whole world, including Tanzania, at the beginning of March 2020; but despite which, Tanzania was able to survive that crisis under the expert leadership of President Magufuli; who flatly refused to impose any lockdown solutions on the population; thus enabling Tanzania to continue flourishing, and managing to enter the lower ‘middle income’ economy bracket in 2020, five years ahead of the scheduled date for that achievement. In his own words, the President said: “we never imposed any lockdown in Tanzania (this was the standard remedy which had been prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for the entire world; whereby the normal movements of the people were severely restricted, with national governments expected to confine their populations strictly within their individual homes; which, in many countries, caused other miseries of deprivation, including widespread hunger), but we continued seriously with our daily activities; trusting in God, and all the time praying for his protection against this killer pandemic”. In other words, President Magufuli just refused to “copy and paste” the prescribed lockdown measures. And, indeed, perhaps miraculously, the prayers worked wonders. Then there was the country’s general election that took place on 28th October, 2020; in which the National Electoral Commission received widespread accolades for the efficient manner in which it organised these elections. The usual long lines of voters waiting patiently at polling stations to cast their votes, were conspicuously missing, as everyone was able to cast his vote quickly, and return home to attend to other duties. This general election also produced absolutely stunning and unprecedented parliamentary election results, that transformed the country’s Parliament into a de facto one-party Parliament; with the usual standard complaints by the losing parties, of “votes having been stolen”, when, in fact, their appointed election Agents were present at every stage of the election exercise, precisely in order to ensure that no cheating of any kind takes place. Thirdly, there were also the sad and sudden deaths of several former Tanzania government leaders, at different times in the course of this year, which greatly shocked the nation; which terminated the lives of the following dignitaries:- Former President Benjamin William Mkapa; the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Minister, and former Tanzania’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations Augustine Mahiga; ex Trade and Industry ministers Iddi Simba and Cyril Chami; ex minister of Science, Technology, and Higher Education Pius Ng’wandu; the Ethics Secretariat Commissioner, retired Judge Harold Nsekela; Former Chief Justice, Rev Augustine Ramadhani; Members of Parliament Dr Gertrude Rwakatare, and Richard Ndassa. Former President Mkapa’s sudden death was particularly shocking to the entire nation, for the following reasons: Firstly, he was the only other Tanzanian former President, to have died after the earlier death of founder President Julius Nyerere in October 1999. Former President Mkapa died in July. But secondly, during the period of his leadership, the late former President Mkapa had expressed certain views and opinions, which constitute a valuable guide on what should be the proper behaviour of elected leadership in a multi-party political dispensation; such as the following speech delivered on the occasion of his inauguration for the second term in 2000:- “What is important for our people, is that their leaders should not aspire for leadership in pursuit of personal glorification, or personal gain. Instead they should strive for the glory of the people as a whole . . . The attitudes of our political leaders, and those of our people, must avoid looking at politics as a ‘dirty game’, or a game of chicanery, deception, and mudslinging. Instead, politics should be viewed as an activity that can be pursued in dignity and decency, always putting the community, or national interests first”. It is my humble submission that each of these fallen government leaders made huge contributions to the progress and development of our country and its people, as reflected in the teachings of the Holy Bible, which says thus in Ecclesiastes, 9.10 : “Whatever thy hand findeth to do here on earth, do it with all thy might. For there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave whither thou goest”. May their souls rest in eternal peace. Amen. Fourthly, there was the successful shift of the seat of Government to Dodoma from Dares Salaam. Following President Magufuli’s promise to the nation, which he made during the annual celebrations of the “Mashujaa Day” on 25th July, 2016, when he announced his commitment to relocate all the Ministries to Dodoma “before the end of his first term in office”; to his credit, President Magufuli succeeded in moving all the government Ministries to Dodoma by June, 2020, which had settled comfortably in the new ultramodern “Mtumba city” that was created out of what was previously Mtumba Village settlement; thus fulfilling Mwalimu Nyerere’s long term dream, which had eventually come true. Indeed, 2020 was a year of great news and events, and a year to remember. The honours that were bestowed upon me during this year, have brought back the precious personal memories of the other extraordinary events of yester years, that also came my way at different times during the long period of my public service, as recorded in my forthcoming book titled “The story of my life in the public service : A contribution to the political history of Tanzania”; to be published soon by Dar es Salaam University Press (DUP). At the time when I retired from active public service in 2012, I publicly expressed my gratitude for having retired with a warm heart, filled with immense personal satisfaction, and gratitude to the four Presidents of the United Republic, who kindly afforded me the coveted opportunity of walking all the time in the high corridors of power, and being right at the centre of the country’s governance systems (the centre of gravity), both of the ruling party (TANU/ CCM); and of the central Government. In relation to the powerful ruling party, particularly during the period of the ‘one-party’ system of governance, when the lead slogan was “Chama kushika hatamu za Uongozi”; I had the privilege of occupying position no. 3 in the party’s hierarchy, coming immediately after the party Chairman and Vice Chairman; which is confirmed by membership card, which is no. 000003. I was upgraded to the no.2 position under Chairman Jakaya Kikwete. And on the Government side, during the period when I was Speaker of the National Assembly, and during the Presidency of the late former President Benjamin Mkapa (1995 -2005), and according to article 37 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania (before it was amended); I was similarly occupying position no. 3 in the country’s leadership succession hierarchy, coming immediately after the country’s President and the Vice President, that provision was, in fact, what gave me the very rare opportunity of being called upon to perform the duties and functions of the country’s President, during periods of the temporary absence of both the President and the Vice President from the country. It was just great. AND LOOKING FORWARD TO 2021. It is customary at the beginning of each new year for people to wish each other “a happy and prosperous new year”. I will therefore do the same, and wish all our esteemed readers a happy and prosperous coming new year 2021. piomsekwa@gmail.com /0754767576