MINISTER for Industry and Trade Geoffrey Mwambe has issued a seven-day ultimatum to all institutions under the ministry to submit their budget strategies that will bring about positive changes in the ministry. The minister warned government executives and officials who frustrated investors and traders to “watch out.” He made directives yesterday during his meeting with senior leaders of institutions and departments under the ministry. “In seven days each institution will prepare a report and submit to me on major strategies that will make significant changes,” he said, pointing to the Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (Brela). “I want to know what you have decided to do to transform industries and trade,” he said. The minister said he was interested in new comprehensive strategies which were viable. He said he wanted a new report on the job description of each manager in the ministry. “I want every unit in the ministry to rethink and revisit its position as well as its contribution to transforming the ministry.” According to the minister, the job is serious and managers must ensure it yields positive results. “The goal is to strengthen the ministry for the betterment of the nation,” he added. Mr Mwambe also urged managers in the ministry to be more innovative and adopt initiatives that would bring about a positive impact on the country. He explained that there was a need for new systems that would create new markets for locally-manufactured goods and products. The markets, he said should include both internal and foreign markets. He said products produced by local entrepreneurs should be supported to reach the international market. He was, however, concerned that authorities under the ministry weren’t working to link local producers as part of creating new markets. “I visited a dairy product company which claims it has been sourcing its packaging materials in Kenya. You can be surprised that in Tanzania we have also producers of packaging materials similar to those in Kenya, yet they claim there are no markets for their products here,” he said. He warned Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) employees who had been siding with foreign competitors to ruin local production that the government was watching. Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Exaud Kigahe urged employees in the ministry to work as a team with the staff in institutions under the ministry for the greater good.