INVESTMENT capital, both private and public, is indispensable to untying a viable approach to the development of the upcoming impetus blue economy in Tanzania mainland and Isles of Zanzibar. It is acknowledged that, government can set the guidelines for the sustainable development of our water zone and ensure they are executed; on the other hand, development cannot take place devoid of the robust involvement of the private sector. The private sector is wellknown to be the chauffeur of productivity, efficiency, and participation, which in my observation, drives economic development speedily when all procedures to allow actors and sponsors operating in this sector to function capably are in place. Hence, leveraging private investment can broaden and excavate the pool of finance for government to address growth needs, whilst motivating economic growth and creating job opportunities. Thus, to align Tanzania to be on trajectory track and keep more economic benefits at home to be drawn from the blue economy, Tanzania as rich nation, blessed with adequate resources cannot longer delay for technology transfer donations and aid money. Leaders and those waiting to be appointed soon have a huge responsibility ahead of them. There is a need now to critically and strategically deliberate on how to build our institutions, our own experts, our own intellectual properties, our culture and above all, our own businesspersons and own financiers to help unlock potential sectors vital for our economy. Failing to do so now, can be another of lost chances whose cost could be enormous for the future of our own children and grandchildren. Hence development of the blue economy should be, in my outlook accompanied by intelligent management and protection of costal and marine resources. Knowing that access to finance could be a restrain to development of the blue economy, view presented here X-rays some innovative financing means and possibly their use to the Tanzanian context; while sightseeing new lines for mobilising private investment and what could be specific strategies and measures that could help create an investment-friendly setting in Tanzania. Strategically positioned, and costal stretched nation such as Tanzania, from Tanga to Mtwara not including Isles of Zanzibar both fenced by sea water body, the sea role as an important producer of revenue and employment opportunity creation is magnified. The blue economy thus calls for the intelligent supervision and conservation of costal resources to drive economic growth, while protecting costal ecosystem and long-term sustainable development. Well understood, well supervised and financed, growth strategy grounded in the blue economy, in my outlook will enable Tanzania to stimulate the growth of existing productive sectors, enlarge into embryonic blue industries, expand food security and theoretically reduce dependency on outside support in many forms. In this method, Tanzania would have attained first seven of the seventeen sustainable development goals, with huge possible to drive progress in several others. A blue economy strategy that forays into new growth sector and expand existing ones in a sustainable manner will boost faster economic growth, and can usher in a new Tanzania economic development paradigm, that is more diversified and less vulnerable to external shocks such as covid-19 and the like. To upkeep the blue economy approach and investment, applicable strategies, legislation incentives and infrastructure must be accommodative to simplify efforts the government wants to put into this sector. It means, Tanzania needs policy mix, legislation and directive, processes and other governance structures should be in such a way they line up with the strategy, in order to make the most of economic potential and value added. Views articulated here endeavour to make policy makers think out of the box, through innovative social and economic development inventions that would support to use efficiently existing natural resources. Under Dr JPM government, with predominant political will, the blue economy in my opinion presents an opportunity for national policy makers to hold the Tanzania’s comparative advantage and to create an environment that better facilitates investments, attracts appropriate financing and private sector-led growth. Much as we are at full swing to try developing blue economy to benefit our nation, it is important to be aware that blue economy investment could be constrained by a number of challenges, particularly related to financial resources within the region financing stock. There are many constraints, but critical to our case as new entrants amidst prevailing competition that we need to have plans in place, including limited choice for debt finance and restricted fiscal space, and declining aid flows. I am not a devil advocate, but most often, the ability to access and appeal to cheap or low cost finance in my opinion has been held up by weak technical capacity for project identification, the development of high-quality proposal, and complex application processes, as well as prolonged implementation deficits. In order to have long lived and effective blue economy to contribute substantially to the economy, amidst limited resources, Tanzania will need technical and capacity building support in order to fully develop and benefit from competitive blue economy industries. Some of these ability building will need working out in project pipeline preparation, developing high-quality project cases, research and application of alternative financing models and enhanced capacity to implement, monitor and evaluate projects which will be critical to bringing on blue economy objectives. Considering the level of investment that will be needed to achieve aforementioned objectives, vis-a-vis current Tanzanian fiscal constraints and debt dynamics, Tanzania under the leadership of Dr JPM and DR Hussein Mwinyi, together must find new and innovative ways to finance investment in the blue economy. Looking back where Tanzania has been, a paradigm shift is needed in the use of available financing as well as optimal use of available resources from all sources. The opportunities to leverage domestic resources by blending official concessional finance with other international resources, while making use of existing two development financial institutions for the blue economy, when wellarticulated in my view is favourable, but if initiatives will be business as usual, I promise it will be another lost opportunity for this Tanzania generation. Increasing the resource envelop to finance blue economy initiatives will require new approach to draw upon the existing pools of development finance and importantly may require the development and piloting of new financing instruments. Given space constrain in this paper, it will not be possible to bring out all issues that could help Tanzania harness blue economy at full, perhaps that can be discussed somewhere. But before penning down, it is important to remember that in Tanzania there is limited awareness on the part of both the investors and investee especially as all plans to exploit blue economy resources.