ONLY two months after Zanzibar President Dr Hussein Mwinyi registered an impressive win in the October general election, the Isles top leader has extended his heartfelt gratitude to Pemba residents and Zanzibaris in general for their support. Speaking to Chakechake CCM leaders in Pemba on Thursday, Dr Mwinyi said he will not spare dishonest leaders in his administration as the 8th phase government promised to bring reforms in the Isles. He said as he pledged during his presidential election campaigns, he will relentlessly work to ensure he brings social economic reforms to make Pemba residents and Zanzibaris in general happy. He expressed his sincere thanks to Pemba residents for their historic support they offered during election campaigns and in the ballot box, enabling him to register an impressive victory. “I would like to thank all people for electing me to the high office. I came to thank you and tell you that we have started to serve you and implementing what I promised,” Dr Mwinyi said in Pemba on Thursday while on post-election thanking tour. Speaking to Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) leaders in Chakechake Pemba, he said since he asssumed office on November 02, 2020, he noted that poor management of projects and shoddy work with no ‘value for huge money’ in public projects is one of the stumbling blocks in changing Zanzibar, “I will deal with all leaders condoning this mess with no mercy.” He said failure to take action against dishonest and underperforming leaders hampers Zanzibar’s effort to achieve fast-paced development, adding that he will not accept any mess in public offices, and that people should help to expose lazy and corrupt people. Dr Mwinyi appealed to the people to support his ongoing reforms in the government, asking them to bear with him when he acts tough on corrupt and lazy leaders as the measures aim at promoting accountability, financial discipline and good management. “People are paying tax so that the government gets funds to implement projects that benefit all people, therefore I will not allow any embezzlement, misuse of public funds, and dubious deals,” Dr Mwinyi said. He promised to be tough in his government, and that all civil servants behind shoddy work under the USD 93 million Zanzibar Urban Services Project (ZUSP); water, and other multi-million Tanzania shillings projects must be investigated and executives behind it prosecuted. Dr Mwinyi said that he/his party applied scientific methods in campaigning to record a landslide victory in the last election, thanking CCM members and fans for voting as he advised them to maintain peace and stability. In a welcoming note prior to Dr Mwinyi’s speech, the Deputy Secretary General- Zanzibar, Dr Abdallah Juma Mabodi thanked CCM members for the historic victory in Pemba, saying that the record should be maintained or broken by higher score in 2025 elections.