TANZANIAN envoys Namungo are keen to write a new chapter when they play Al Rabita of South Sudan in the CAF Confederation Cup’s second leg match at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam today. The Tanzanian envoys going into the match buoyed by 3-0 lead they stamped during their home leg at the same venue last week. Namungo are blessed to play both matches at home due to the Covid-19 threat in South Sudan, hence; the second leg can’t be staged there. Namungo’s hefty victory came from efforts of Stephen Sey, who scored a brace in the 20th and 39th minutes; and Shiza Kichuya who added the third in 64th minute. It will be a unique opportunity for Tanzanian envoys to qualify for the next stage, and clean the bad image of making early exit like what happened to the last year’s envoys; Kinondoni Municipal Council. KMC were knocked out by aggregate 2-1 loss by Kigali FC. But, even if Namungo are ahead of the South Sudanese, they have been cautioned not to think that the game is over as football has got teasing results sometimes. Incase Namungo secure an aggregate victory, they will face Al Hilal Al Obayed of Sudan for the first round where the winner will pick a ticket to play in play-off stage. Speaking on Friday, Namungo Information Officer Kindamba Namlia said they will approach the match without looking at the results they stamped in their previous duel. “Until now, I can say our preparations are 100 per cent but, as you know, anything in football can happen that is why we do not take the next match for granted,” he said. He added that the incumbent coach Hemedi Morocco has been training hard his charges on how to score more goals from chances they create in a particular game. “After the past match, the coach complained about lack of efficiency when it comes to netting goals and so far, he has worked a lot on that area in order to score more goals than we did in the previous tie,” he said. He, however, elaborated that many people do consider Al Rabita as an easy team to beat, they are not, it was because Namungo were a better side on the day. “We consider them (Al Rabita) as our opponents we need to defeat them to sail through to the upper stage of the competition. They are winners of Federation Cup in their country as such, they are not as simple as many people see them,” he said. Most people have banked on Namungo to outclass the South Sudan side and penetrate further into the lucrative football competition basing on the performance they displayed in the first leg battle.