TANZANIA Network of Legal Aid Providers (TANLAP) has appealed to the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs to speed up amendment of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 that discriminates women in succession rights. TANLAP Managing Director, Ms Christina Ruhinda raised the concern recently during the Legal Aid Week at Omurushaka Township, in Karagwe District at the regional level, adding that women be given more empowerment. “The Indian Succession Act of 1925 that discriminates women in succession rights is still in use in Tanzania today…it must be repealed. “In fact, TANLAP had already forwarded the recommendations to the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs for necessary amendment. Most women, especially those in rural villages are discriminated, thus a need for amendment of the Act,” she pointed out. Elaborating, she said most of the pending cases in court are related to inheritance, where women and widows are being denied rights to inherit properties including land after the death of their husbands. She cited an incident where a certain widow (name withheld), was denied the right to inherit her late husband's properties. She battled and successfully won the case in court only to be murdered a few weeks later. Ms Ruhinda said until March this year, approximately 11,008 people in need of legal aid had been reached and assisted, adding that TANLAP has established branches in several regions including Njombe, Kilimanjaro, Kagera, Mbeya and Mwanza. Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti, commended TANLAP and other stakeholders including MHOLA and Tanganyika Law Society (TLS), for taking bold action in assisting poor and marginalised groups, who cannot afford to hire advocates. “The government appreciates the interventions and was ready to support them,” he said. The Indian Succession Act of 1925 broadly deals with two categories of succession namely testamentary succession and intestate succession. In a case, where there is a written will testamentary succession is applicable. On the other hand, when there is no will and the properties of the deceased need to be distributed as per the religious laws, intestate succession is applicable. TANLAP is an umbrella national network working in the legal sector. It is a membership of network comprising non-governmental organisations (NGOs), community-based organisations (CBOs), faith-based organisations (FBOs) and other institutions providing legal aid in Tanzania. Founded in 2006, TANLAP's core aim is to work and link up with other civil society organisations to provide quality legal aid and advocate for access to justice among the poor and marginalised sections of society in Tanzania.