You see, the side effect of the Ilala product we consume with gusto is simple; we at times become owners of very creative minds. During this festive season, the Ilala product flows freely, and minds run on overdrive, and what begins as a simple drinking spree can end up into an unforgettable adventure. As we eagerly wait for Christmas, I was relaxing outside my house in Manzese just the other, waiting for a crucial hour when I intended to make a grand appearance at Zakayo’s Pub, and I could not help feeling at home surrounded by all the waswahili. I watched as a pregnant woman came in my direction, and looking at her, I could imagine that the child was supposed to make an entry into this world at any time, regardless of the place. The afternoon heat was unbearable, and I could see the woman having trouble walking, because she was too heavy, and each step looked like an uphill task. There were three skinny, bleached women sitting on the veranda next to where I was seated, and they looked at the pregnant woman with amusement in their eyes. The woman passed where we were and she politely greeted us before proceeding, and the three women responded as if they were her most valuable friends on this earth. As soon as she disappeared around the corner, the laughter that came from the women made me jump, and looking at them, I knew they were having a very good time. “He he he he! This place has been invaded by an elephant! With that kind of walk, it seems that woman is very lazy, walking as if she is the first woman to become pregnant!” said one of the women who looked as if she could do with a bath. The other women chuckled with glee and gave the other a high five, and the shorter of the three, who rumor has it that she has been divorced 12 times, told the others that the pregnant woman was carrying a baby fathered by a ‘mzungu’. Because I was swallowing a very cold Ilala product at that time, my mind shifted gears rapidly and moved into overdrive, and I imagined what if Jesus Christ was born in Manzese. Definitely Joseph, the father of Jesus, would be a resident of Manzese, where he has his carpentry shop, and probably Mary, his betrothed, would be living not far from where he stays. I imagined Joseph, after saving enough money from selling school desks to the government, goes to Mary’s place and face her father, and duly informs him that he is planning to marry his daughter, because they are madly in love. “If you allow me in one week’s time I will come with my ‘washenga’ to complete the process, and I am sure my lead mshenga, Baba Boyi, will not disappoint you,” says Joseph to the soon to be father in law. After exactly one week, I imagined the determined carpenter heading to Mary’s home with several Manzese elders, and he is uncomfortable because he is not sure whether the dowry price was going to be enough. With the economic situation at a critical state, the ‘wakwe’ accept the gifts, and a wedding date is set, and we all head back home, but not before we decide to pass at Zebedayo’s Pub located on Bethlehem/Manzese Boulevard to irrigate our very dry throats (you see, the father of Mary needed a lot of convincing, which took a toll on our poor throats!). But as we wait for the wedding date, I imagined mama Boyi, wearing flowing robes and carrying olive oil in a skin bottle entering the house in a huff, and tells me that the wedding is off. “Baba Boyi, wonders will never cease….can you imagine I just bumped into Joseph on 3rd Nazareth Street delivering furniture at the local school, and when he saw me he begged me to spare him a few minutes, guess what he told me….imagine Mary is pregnant!” she announces. I scratch my bald head and try to imagine why Joseph could not wait until the wedding was over before he decided to become cozy with Mary, but mama Boyi answered my query. She tells me that Joseph swore upon his mother’s skirt that he has never touched Mary…….even with a yard stick, she said, and he was still trying to figure out who the responsible wise guy was. I told mama Boyi to bring my robe so that I can go see Joseph, and if possible talk to Mary too to find out what went wrong. But as I approached his hut, I saw him coming towards me. He had a strange look on his face, and when I stopped him, it was as if he was seeing me for the first time. I ask him about Mary, and he lifts his eyes towards heaven and mutters some ineligible words to the effect that his great grandfather Bartholomew must be shaking in his tomb. Finally, he tells me that he was planning to go to Mary’s place and demand for his money because the deal was off. I tried talking to him and find out what had happened, but he left in a hurry, heading back to his hut, whistling one of the Psalm lyrics. Early the next day, he appeared outside my house with a disturbed look, and told me that at night an angel of the Lord appeared to him and told him not to even dare do what he was planning to do. Anyway, as the pregnancy developed, the waswahili women continued to have a good time whenever they saw Mary or Joseph, and khangas were printed to that effect. One kanga on the waist of a stooped woman read ‘akili za kuambiwa changanya na za kwako’ while another khanga on the waist of the local tent maker’s wife screamed ‘man smart but a woman smarter’ My mind which was getting hot from engaging the overdrive gear made sure that I came across Mary as she went to the market, and she comes across four women who are notorious for being professional wambeya in the estate. “Shosti congratulation, you are one clever woman, yani you managed to fool that fellow and he swallowed the story that your pregnancy was from the Holy Spirit! Kweli wewe kiboko, we should find some time so that you can show us how you did it!” one of them told Mary. At the local joints, I could imagine people speaking about Joseph, and how he was taken for a ride by a woman. “Na ujanja wote he fell for that story…I told you, staying around wood most of the time makes your brain to start behaving like a wooden stool, but as they say, love is blind, lakini ni ulofa kweli kweli!!” said a youth who rents donkeys to traders.