ON Tuesday this week, Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP) organised an event in Dar es Salaam which brought together over 200 gender equality activists, to discuss, among other things, life for women and children, 25 years after the Beijing conference was held. Under the theme “25 years of Beijing: Invest, empower, and eradicate violence” women from different walks of life discussed areas where they were still facing violence, and better ways of ending women violence like rape, Female Genital Mutilation (FGM), early marriages for underage girls, and early pregnancies. To set the ball rolling was the TGNP Board chairperson Ms Asseny Muro, who said it was high time Tanzania entered a new phase of intergenerational collaborative efforts to develop new strategies that can reflect new gender perspectives. She said there were not as many young women and men, who better understood gender issues and 25th Anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action. The event was an opportunity to connect the missing intergenerational link in the women’s movement by working with young women for collective actions. She mentioned barriers to gender equality, equity and social justice and clearly stated that opportunities for women and girls are still limited, thus calling more women to influence change and development. According to her gender equality was not obtained on a silver platter. It is achieved through a continuous process that involves collective efforts. Working with young activists is important if the society wants to sustain the process, she said. Through collective efforts as a movement, she says, there are many strong women organisations in the country like TGNP, implementing programmes to empower women, for gender equality and social justice. She lauded women representation in decision making which has improved since Tanzania got independence in 1961, because the country currently has a female Vice President Mama Samia Suluhu Hassan who has been a champion of women rights, just like President John Pombe Magufuli. Addressing the same gathering, TGNP Executive Director Lilian Liundi said gender equality improvement should start with everybody, to enable all attain the world of their dreams. "I wish efforts put forward in addressing the Covid 19 pandemic could be the same as those we put forward when fighting for gender equality in our society. By now we could be very far, no longer talking about violence against women and other vulnerable groups" she said. Her words were complemented by a senior official from the Department of Social Welfare in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Mr Darius Damas Kalijongo. He said that the government had established an integrated management system for women who have been subjected to gender-based violence, as part of an initiative to holistically respond to GBV cases. Besides women, says Kalijongo, the system is also expected to respond to cases of violence against children. This official who spoke on behalf of the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, John Njingu noted that the government was committed to ending violence against women and children. He noted that the country lacked such a crucial system for a long time, but it was now working. “Great strides have been made due to collaboration that involves various stakeholders,” says Kalijongo. Besides, the ministry has developed guidelines for the establishment and management of safe homes for victims and survivors of human trafficking and other forms of GBV. He pointed out that the move would support the establishment of shelters and safe homes particularly for elders. Among the achievements recorded by the government towards ending GBV was the establishment of 420 gender and children desks in 26 regions in the country, he said. Likewise, The Tanzania Prisons Service has joined forces by starting up to 161 gender desks at the prisons. He added that GBV survivors in health facilities setting one-stop centres had been established for the provision of specialised services to help victims. So far, 14 centres have been started. "The goal is to provide similar services at regional and district hospitals countrywide. Major achievements have been recorded in juvenile cases dealt in line with the law of the child and juvenile court rules to ensure the rights and well-being of children were protected" he said. The official added that the move was also meant to ensure children who were diverted from the full justice system were treated in communities and rehabilitation centres. “We have developed divergent skills, whereby children who are in conflict with the law are taken to rehabilitation centres,” he says. Other aspects include looking for fit homes, foster families and adopting families to enjoy the care and support regardless of other challenges. The guest of honour at the event Mama Anne Makinda insisted that without gender education to all people, violence against women and children would not end. "We need to pull efforts together against all forms of violence against women. Children at home should be treated equally without looking at their sex. We need enough resources to fight gender-based violence" said Mama Makinda. In February this year, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan was the guest of honour at the Women's Day climax event in Simiyu region and she praised all organisations fighting gender-based violence. She emphasized the need to continue prioritising higher levels of education for women and girls to close the gender gap in sectors such as politics, governance and the judiciary. On that particular day, UN Resident Coordinator, Mr Zlatan Milisic who was present highlighted the need to accelerate the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal number five, which speaks about Gender Equality in order to achieve this goal by 2030. “By 2030, we should live in a world where women and girls have access to education, healthcare and decent work. We should live in a world where women and girls live free from violence and are equally represented in political and economic deci­sion-making processes,” said Mr Milisic. On the same day, UN Women Representative, Ms. Hodan Addou said that despite significant gender equality gains in Tanzania, there was still ground to cover in order to fully realise women’s rights. To reach that goal, she said there was a need to work harder to ensure that poverty no longer has a woman’s face and ensure that women truly have equal opportunities to own land and property, to engage in decent work, and to promote better sharing of unpaid care work. The 1995 Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing which was chaired by Ambassador Getrude Mongella from Tanzania marked a significant turning point for the global agenda for gender equality. The Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action, adopted unanimously by 189 countries, is an agenda for women’s empowerment and considered the key global policy document on gender equality. It sets strategic objectives and actions for the advancement of women and the achievement of gender equality in 12 critical areas of concern. The Beijing conference built on political agreements reached at the three previous global conferences on women, and consolidated five decades of legal advances aimed at securing the equality of women with men in law and in practice. More than 17,000 participants attended, including 6,000 government delegates at the negotiations, along with more than 4,000 accredited NGO representatives, a host of international civil servants and around 4,000 media representatives. A parallel NGO Forum held in Huairou near Beijing also drew some 30,000 participants. 