HUNDREDS of Goziba residents in Muleba District could not hide their joy after witnessing the opening of a dispensary whose construction had stalled since 2012. Ms Joyce Kokutangirila (25) recalled how they had suffered for a long time to get medical services at Rubya Designated Hospital (DDH), a distance of about 50km costing them at least 300,000/-. “The opening of the dispensary is a milestone. Several pregnant women died before reaching Rubya Hospital. We thank President John Magufuli for his tireless efforts to save the lives of poor Tanzanians through the construction of the health facilities,” she said. Muleba District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Modest Lwakahemula, said the dispensary, that cost 152m/- would provide essential services, including surgeries and HIV/ Aids. “Good health of a population is central to the development of a nation since a healthy population lives longer and is more productive and contributing more to the nation’s economy. An effective public health system from the grassroots is important for providing care of the sick and put in place measures that promote preventive services of diseases,” he said. Meanwhile, Kagera Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Prof Faustin Kamuzora, has emphasised a need for mothers to breastfeed their children to reduce the rate of malnutrition. He explained that Kagera Region was among the regions with the high rate of stunting among children aged below five years, which stood at 39.8 per cent, while the national average stood at 34 per cent. Other regions with the high stunting rate in brackets include Njombe (53.6 per cent), Iringa (47.1 per cent), Rukwa (47.9 per cent), Songwe (43.3 per cent), Kigoma (42.3 per cent) and Ruvuma (41.0 per cent). “While some efforts have been made to reduce the stunting rate from 41.7 per cent in 2015/16 to 39.8 per cent in 2019 more efforts are still needed. It is high time every person cooperated to realise the goal of malnutrition-free in Kagera Region. Without necessary actions children will remain at greater risk in the region,” he said. He urged all stakeholders to join hands in the fight against malnutrition and hidden hunger, noting that more efforts should be made to educate families especially women on the importance of breastfeeding and eating food varieties rich in micronutrients, proteins and vitamin A. Kagera Region has enough food varieties, including bananas, beans and fish species, notably from Lake Vitoria and 14 satellite lakes...food availability is not a problem. Families should be educated on the best food varieties to eat on a daily basis. Kagera Regional Nutrition Officer Yusuf Hamis disclosed a recent initial baseline survey indicated that about 224,364 children aged below five years in Kagera Region was stunted. Minimum acceptable diet stood at 18.1 per cent compared to the national average of 30.3 per cent. The rate of continued breastfeeding at two years stood at 44.4 per cent while the national average was 43.3 per cent. The rate of exclusive breastfeeding stood at 85 per cent and meal frequency per day stood at 55 per cent.