KNOWLEDGE is power, so the saying goes, and for communities in Kilwa, Kilosa and Rufiji districts the knowledge to conserve and manage forests has enabled them to earn money, improve the quality of lives and, in due course, alleviate poverty at family level thanks to community- based forest management programmes (CBFM) supported by Tanzania Forest Conservation Group (TFCG), Mtandao wa Jamii wa Usimamizi wa Misitu (MJUMITA), Tanzania Natural Resources Forum (TNRF), WWF-Tz and other conservation organisations. Today, TFCG is working with communities in seven districts of Liwale, Nachingwea, Kilosa, Kilolo, Ruangwa, Morogoro and Mvomero to help them conserve and manage village forests and ultimately realise tangible communal and individual benefits. Likewise WWF and Mpingo Conservation and Development Initiative (MDCI) are doing similar activities in 11 villages in Kilwa District while MJUMITA is working with communities in 450 villages in 30 districts. CBFM activities have been going on for about 10 years now and by putting into practice the knowledge gained and with assistance from the NGOs, villages have recorded milestones in improving social services and raising individual incomes from sale of various forest products. In some cases these villages have become sources of funding for district councils with the former injecting millions of shillings in the district budgets. Take Nanjilinji A in Kilwa District, for example. Before 2012 when the village forest was yet to be surveyed and villagers knew little about sustainable conservation, the village earned just about 30m/- annually from sale of forest products, with the bulk of the products being harvested and sold illegally. Corruption was also rife. Today the village conserves and protects a total of 83,538 hectares of forest comprising Mbumbila A and Mbumbila B. The village government has put in place a harvesting plan that enables them to realise tangible benefits while ensuring that the forest thrives. As a result the village’s income from forest resources has increased from 30m/-annually to 130,000/- annually within a span of seven years. “This is an increase of about 77 per cent of income earned from forest resources,” says Mohammed Musa Mkalimaga, Chair Person of the Village Natural resources Committee. “Before the introduction of CBFM, there was rampant illegal logging and harvesting of forest products because villagers had no mandate and they did not realise any financial gains whatsoever. There was nothing like sustainable harvesting as forest resources were free for all,” he adds. The adoption of CBFM provides opportunity for villagers to conserve and protect their forest resources and acquire knowledge on preparing harvesting plans. With assistance from NGOs focusing on conservation, the village government has secured a good market for the world renowned price wood, Mpingo, a major product from their forests. Perhaps the most important issue is not how much money the village collects, rather how the money is spent with the view to improve lives of the villagers and, in due course, alleviate poverty at family level. Initially the village government focused on improving social services in the areas of education, health and supply of safe water. These would provide communal benefits and in the long run, raise quality of lives of the villagers. “Until last year we had spent about 90m/- on construction of four classrooms, a teachers’ office, a teacher’s house, one pre-primary classroom and provided 40 desks to Nanjilinji A primary school,” says Mohamedi Mussa Mkalimaga, Chairperson of the village government. Having built the infrastructure for a good learning environment, the village government moved on to meet the basic needs of pupils in the village so as to improve their performance in school. The aim was to create conditions that would raise the quality of education in Nanjilinji A and other villages. The village government has continued to provide 100,000/- to every pupil from Nanjilinji A and Nanjilinji B who is selected to join secondary schools. This aims at relieving parents with the burden of buying requirements for their children, bearing in mind that some of the parents find it difficult to raise that money. A total number of 61 pupils have benefited from the programme which has cost the village government about 6m/-. The village government has also spent about 2m/- for buying uniforms for 323 primary school pupils. “We want to make sure that no child in the village fails to go to school for lack of money to buy this or that. Parents still have to meet some of the costs but our plan is to spend more on the education sector as we earn more money from sale of forest products,” explains Mkalimaga. In efforts to improve the health sector Nanjilinji A village government has built a latrine for the village primary school and bought 20 mattresses and 40 bed sheets for the village dispensary. The government gives 50,000/- to every woman in the village who gets pregnant. The money is meant to enable women to buy various items required for delivery of the newborn in a bid to promote safe motherhood. Mosi Hasan Kikope is one of the beneficiaries of the programme. “We are happy with this programme because we don’t have to worry about our needs when we are ready to deliver. Initially the village government offered 30,000/- to every pregnant woman but now they have raised that amount to 50,000/-,” says Ms Kikope. So far the village has spent 14m/- for the programme which has benefited 280 women and there are plans to raise the amount as income from sale of forest products increases. In the meantime the village government offers 50,000/- to every villager who is referred to the district hospital in Kilwa Masoko for treatment and 200 villagers have benefitted from the programme. There is also provision for villagers to borrow money to settle personal emergencies. The village government has also purchased equipment to drill wells in a bid to improved supply of safe water. Currently it has drilled six deep wells and rehabilitated three others, all of which supply enough water to meet the needs of the community. In order to create employment through investment, the village has built a guest house and furnished it with beds, mattresses and bed sheets. The guest house provides employment to some youths who work as cleaners and attendants. Others do laundry work. “It is important to note that five per cent of the income we get from forest conservation goes to Kilwa District Council. This means that our efforts to conserve forests gives the Council two benefits; one is that we reduce their burden to fund education, health, water and other social services for the village. The other is that we contribute to their annual budget; our support stands at about 40m/- annually,” says Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee, Sabiamu Poto. Mtanza-Msona village government in Rufiji District CBFM is also changing lives although sustainable harvesting of the village forest that began as recently as 2016 following awareness and educational campaigns on conservation conducted by various NGOs. Among other things, the campaigns focused on educating villagers on conservation and building their capacity to own and manage the forest in a manner that would make them realise sustainable gains. The sale of timber, poles and logs earned the village an annual income of about 30m/-. Four years down the road the village now earns 100m/- annually and the best is yet to come. “We have embarked on improving social services in the village with the small amount of money that we collected. We still have a long way to go,” says the village government chairman, Ismail Said Lusonzo. Last year the village bought 45 chairs and 40 tables for the village secondary school and installed electricity in three teachers’ houses and one house of a medical staff at the village dispensary. They have also bought a tractor. One of the residents, Ramadhan Ali Mgombelwa, says that besides realising financial gains, villagers still need support from conservation organisations in other areas such as keeping financial records and preparing reports on all activities related to conservation and harvesting of the village forest. “We need to realise more money from conserving our forest but while we are moving in that direction we need to observe integrity and good governance because these are the basis of sustainable conservation,” he says, adding that village government leaders and members of the natural resources committee observe transparency in all the activities because they have been trained in some of the issues. “But I think they need more support in order to keep abreast with expectations of the villagers. Awareness of conservation and the need for good governance in managing the forest is high among community members,” explains Mgombelwa. Speaking about the need for training, the Chairperson of the Village Natural Resources Committee, Salma Issa Wamba says that training must be a continuous activity because there is always new knowledge about conservation of forests and how it can raise more income for the community and for individuals. “Members of the natural resources committee frequently change for various reasons. Some relocate to other villages, others pass away and others simply opt out. This calls for frequent training and education to the new members and updating old members on conservation issues. We still look upon our partner organisations to support these activities,” she says. Kilwa District officer Njaba Lyatura says that CBFM enables communities to conserve forests in their natural state so that custodians and stewards may benefit beyond financial gains. “The community based forest management system allows villagers to own and manage forest resources within their village. It gives them mandate to draw harvesting plans and implement the same so that they realise tangible benefits which enable them to alleviate poverty at family level,” he says. “When villagers are given space to own and manage forests, the benefits are realised at family level, village level, district level and go all the way up to national level,” he adds. Speaking about the success of CBFM in Kilwa District, Acting District Executive Director Godfrey Jafary says that awareness of conservation among communities is very high because villages have improved social services from sale of forest products. “But CBFM has created employment for the youth throughout the forest value chain and this has greatly reduced poaching and illegal logging,” he says. “Through conservation and management of forests village governments step in where district and central governments have failed in providing and improving social services in the rural poor communities. Without CBFM, it would be difficult for government to bear the burden and it would take decades for government to provide the level of social services that villages enjoy now,” he adds.