ORGANISERS of a prestigious East Africa Volleyball Championship have called upon financial support for them to smoothly host the regional event. The championship that brings together top East African Community (EAC) clubs is set for June 2021 in Dodoma. Frank Kang’ombe, a Mwanza based Home Life Sports (HOLIS) event marketer, told the ‘Daily News’ from Dodoma that preparations for the event that will for the first time be held in Dodoma are on top gear. Kang’ombe said that HOLIS is still looking for the support from individuals, companies and institutions to make it a success. “Everything is going well so far, but we sorely depend on financial support to stage it,” he said. “We therefore appeal for well-wishers wished to come forwards to support us,” he said. He said that they have extended invitations to EAC member states to come for the much awaited biggest event in the region. As part of the promotion of the game, organisers have also opened doors for the junior under 18 teams to take part and challenge each other during. It is an annual competition that first was known as Mirjam East Africa Championship and was for the two consecutive years held in Mwanza. This year’s event was put off because of Coronavirus pandemic as teams could not travel due to global travel restrictions. Majaliwa Mayunga who is HOLIS Chairman was recently quoted by this paper as saying that the changes were later made to allow by the volleyball govern body in the country TAVA to register the event as the East African volleyball Championship. It will be a platform for the local teams to challenge and share experience with visiting teams, apart from exposing their talent to the international level. The would-be winners will pocket hefty prizes, including a trophy and 5million/- for first prize, 3Mil/- and 2Mil/- will go to second and third winners, respectively. HOLIS has been doing wonderful job towards promoting and developing the game in the country from grass-roots to the upper level in just few years since its inception.