IN a bid to ensure water sources management, the government said on Thursday that there is need to enhance participation and involvement of both the media and private sector. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Engineer Anthony Sanga said this during the official opening of the 4th national multi-sectoral forum on water resources management and development, which took place on Thursday in the city. “It is clear that most companies are doing well individually, but there is an opportunity for doing better collectively, which has the advantage of having a larger footprint in the quest for ensuring water security for all,” he said. Eng Sanga further said that private companies have continued to engage and support various initiatives in ensuring water security for all through several initiatives, including water source protection, conservation, pollution control and increasing access to water provision to the community through drilling of boreholes among others. The PS asserted that activities by the private sector are not well documented and highlighted in the media, thus called for more active participation of the media and private sector in promoting water resources management activities. “In this regard, I call upon all stakeholders to put more efforts to ensure that the working groups are more effective, which will eventually lead to the efficient forum, more members should join the forum and groups,” he noted. As the forum enters into its 4th year, he said it will be useful to reflect on its bigger vision, especially on its theory of change as well as instituting appropriate monitoring frameworks for checking progress and impact. Earlier, High Commissioner of Canada in Tanzania, Ms Pamela O'Donnell said the private sector has a significant contribution to water resource management, thus it was crucial to ensure they are well involved. Chairperson of the Multi-Sectoral Forum, Eng Mbogo Futakamba said water cuts across all sectors and is fundamental to human and environmental wellbeing, as well as economic growth. “Strengthening collaboration and partnership among all water users is therefore key to the performance and long-term sustainability of all sectors of the economy,” said Eng Futakamba. The forum carried the theme ‘Accelerating the realisation of water security for all through enhanced multi-sectoral dialogues’ and was hosted by the ministry of water in collaboration with the 2030 Water Resources Group, Global Affairs Canada, and Shahidi wa Maji.