EQUITY Tanzania has joined the bank-cum-insurance providers’ bandwagon and will start issuing the service next year. The bank joined other banks into insurance after the introduction of Bancassurance regulations. The lender thus changed its identity to accommodate both a financial institution and insurance services by dropping ‘bank’ on its logo to be known as Equity Tanzania. Equity Tanzania Managing Director, Robert Kiboti said on Monday the new logo now features “Equity” without bank to signify a one-stop-shop and a consolidated business model for its inclusive range of financial services. “In fact, with the Bancassurance regulations in place, we will start issuing bancassurance services in 2021,” Mr Kiboti said during the soft launch ceremony in Dar es Salaam. The rebranding aimed at positioning Equity as more than a bank but rather a one-stop centre for financial services that offers just more than banking. Going forward, Equity Tanzania will present itself as a unified brand, with one basket of products and services under one roof. Also the new look comes with the promise of enhanced relationship management, empowerment of consumers, businesses and enterprises. “Our new look assures the empowerment of individuals expanding their opportunities to create wealth,” he said adding: “We will [from today] roll out the refreshed look in all our physical outlets and digital banking platforms.” The new look signage will also be on social media assets, websites, mobile applications, mobile banking platform, and business online banking and ATM screens. The lender further committed to offering seamless customer experience as the bank looks to grow its customer base. “We shall continue to roll-out innovative financial solutions that are geared towards broadening financial access and deepening financial inclusion,” Mr Kiboti said. Equity Group Holdings CEO and Managing Director, Dr James Mwangi said the operating environment has changed, with the most dramatic shift being customers changing needs and aspirations in line with changing lifestyle brought about by technological advancements. “Additionally,” Mr Mwangi said, “the market demographics are embracing youth-targeted products and services and becoming more mobile and digital”. The CEO said customers are increasingly showing preference for self-service banking, making banking something ones do, and not somewhere one go. “The refreshed brand identity reflects the future we envision, one which communicates our global capability, strong heritage, innovative culture and agile business model that will carry and give the brand momentum to scale its strengths across Africa and the world,” Dr Mwangi added. The most significant shift in direction of the brand is the introduction of a unified brand under-one Equity. Going forward, Equity will now present itself to the world as one unified brand, with one basket of products and services under one roof ranging from banking, insurance and investment from a service delivery perspective. The roll-out of the new identity by Equity Group started in Kenya where it based before rolled out to South Sudan, Uganda and Tanzania while more subsidiaries are expected to launch soon.