TANZANIA has advised member states of the Universal Postal Union (UPU) to allocate ample time for familiarising themselves with a single billing system used by postal designated operators in achieving its anticipated results. Besides this, UPU members have been encouraged to be diligent and transparent while implementing the system worldwide. Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication responsible for Communications, Dr Jim Yonazi, said this while addressing the Postal Operation Committee of the Universal Postal Union (UPU-POC) held in Berne, Switzerland, for two days on December 1 and 2, this year. Dr Yonazi led the Tanzanian delegation comprising of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation, the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) and the Tanzania Posts Corporation (TPC). The delegation participated in the meeting through a videoconference. “The single billing system should be implemented diligently to ensure the desired results are realised by the designated postal operators and customers who will get better services that meet their expectations,” said Dr Yonazi. He cautioned confidentiality of data, saying all information shared in a postal network linked to the transport sector should be secure and information disclosed only to intended parties. “Discussions are crucial for the postal sector and the country as a whole. Post services are central to boosting the economy particularly online services which have grown due to technological advancement and change in customer incentives,” he said. Other issues deliberated during the meeting included the management of the postal sector particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic whereby major revolutions in information communications technology occurred. The deputy PS stressed the importance of the postal sector to boost innovation and preparedness in using information technology and being proactive in their day to day operations and at times of outbreaks, the case in point being Covid-19 pandemic. Equally, technological advancement is among the areas whose discussions dominated the meeting like postal service delivery and change in customer demand. There was also a discussion on the need to have a robust system of sending electronic advanced data (EAD) information and how to process items without ITMATT with the aim of eliminating chances of sending prohibited items through the postal network. Director of Communications Services at the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications Clarence Ichwekeleza said the Universal Postal Union consisted of 192 member states, Tanzania being one of them. According to Ms Ichwekeleza, the country is also a member of the Postal Operation Council (POC) which has 40 member states. UPU is made up of the Council of Administration (CA) of which Tanzania is an observer. She said the country vied for the membership of the POC in 2016 and was vying for the same in both councils.