NMB Bank has recruited more than 50 fresh university graduates through its on-thejob training programme that started 10 years ago to groom academically qualified young people for a career in the country. According to NMB Bank Chief of Retail Banking Filbert Mponzi, trainees undergo a two-year practical orientation in banking business. On-the-job training also involves a fast track of skills development for them to take up identified key roles within the bank. Mr Mponzi, who represented NMB Bank Chief Executive Officer Ruth Zaipuna at the graduation ceremony, said the investment had been a success not only for the bank and the graduates, but also for the whole banking industry. “As the most profitable bank in the country, we are obliged to help address various challenges facing the youth, notably in employment. Young people, who have joined us, were recruited after completing different courses at universities and equipping them with skills through on-the-job-training programme to make them experience before being employed,” he noted. He noted that the objective of the programme was to create a pool of skilled and competent workers for strategic areas in banking and financial matters. Launched in 2009 as part of its staff recruitment and training strategy, the NMB Bank graduate trainee initiative is designed to create and equip future managers with requisite skills and knowledge to effectively work for the bank and diligently serve its customers. The latest five young talents to be groomed under the intensive apprenticeship programme graduated in Dar es Salaam on Friday. The next batch of the management trainees, whose recruitment has already been completed, will comprise 10 graduates and their training is expected to start early next year. Mr Mponzi said one of the NMB Bank’s business strategies was to continuously contribute to the growth of youth employment and create skilled labour in the country. The graduation ceremony was graced by a board member, Ms Margaret Ikongo, who commended the graduates for bravely coping with employment challenges after completing university studies. She said the brave face they put on the situation before joining the NMB Bank management trainee programme was one of the reasons that made them excel and contributed to their employment. She urged them to use the same spirit of endurance to work for NMB Bank and contribute meaningfully to its operations so that the lender could continue performing strongly, continue being the market leader and delivering accordingly. Speaking on behalf of her colleagues, one of the graduates, Ms Agnes Nyanzala, said they had enjoyed the two years of apprenticeship at the bank. “The experience and exposure,” she explained, “has empowered us professionally and has made NMB Bank to employ us right away.” NMB