FIVE Directors with CITL International Limited and a lawyer have appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam charged with four counts of conspiracy, managing and conducting a pyramid scheme and money laundering involving over 8bn/-. They are George Mwaipungu (47), Innocent Mchacky (37), Agnes Mdoe and Haji Mwaipaya (30), who are all directors of the company, and Ramadhani Mwikalo (67), who is a lawyer. They were not allowed to enter plea to the charges because they fall under the Economic and Organized Crime Control Act. Presiding Senior Resident Magistrate Yusto Ruboroga ordered the accused persons to go to remand because his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail. The case was adjourned to December 16, for mention, as investigations, according to the prosecution, are incomplete. Prosecuting, State Attorney Ester Martin told the court that on diverse dates between March 3, 2019 and November 6, 2020 within the city of Dar es Salaam, all accused persons conspired to commit an offence of managing and conducting pyramid scheme. The court heard that within the same period in Dar es Salaam and different places within the United Republic of Tanzania, jointly and together, the accused persons managed and conducted pyramid scheme by collecting money from the public. According to the prosecution, the accused persons promised individual owners of the money that they will receive a sum of money or return, which given all commercial consideration, is greater than the money collected. All accused persons were also jointly charged with two money laundering offences. On diverse dates between July 17, 2019 and October 31, 2020 in Dar es Salaam and in difference places in the United Republic of Tanzania, the accused persons allegedly engaged themselves in a transaction involving money by directing the sum of 761,487.24 US dollars credited in a bank account. Such account maintained at the National Microfinance Bank (NMB) is in the name of CITL International Limited. The accused persons are alleged to have committed such crime while they knew or ought to have known the sum was proceed of predicate offence of managing and conducting a pyramid scheme. The prosecution alleged further that within the same period and places, all accused persons directly engaged themselves in a transaction involving money by directing the sum of 6,707,867,384.52 be credited to a bank account maintained at the NMB in the name of CITL International Limited. According to the prosecution, the accused persons committed the offence in question while they knew or ought to have known that the said money was proceed of predicate offence of managing and conducting a pyramid scheme.