THE Ministry of Energy has agreed with five Regional Commissioners and assured them on full protection of Rufiji River tributaries for free flow of water to the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP) for power production. The project that is executed at the Stigler’s Gorge area in Rufiji District at the border of Morogoro and Coast Region 6.5trl/- will produce 2,115 MW on completion in June 2022. Speaking recently during his tour to the site, Minister of Energy Dr Medard Kalemani, said his meeting with Ruvuma, Njombe, Iringa, Morogoro and Coast Reginonal Commissioners discussed best modality on how to protect the river. “For the project to be sustainable and prosper, we need adequate supply of water, and in this case, the source shouldn’t be disturbed in any way. Together with the respective regional commissioners we have agreed that the source will be protected for sustainability of water to be realised in the project,” said the minister. According to Dr Kalemani, the rising economic activities along the water sources would negatively affect the catchment environment and lifespan of the river. This has come barely a month after the board of directors of the National Environment Management Council (Nemc) visited the site and expressed their satisfaction at the measures being taken on environmental protection throughout the project. Speaking during their tour to the area, Nemc board Chairman Prof Esnati Chaggu said it was encouraging to see that all players in the project are paying due attention to the environmental issues for the future prosperity of the ecology of the area. “Nemc is working closely with the project to ensure that all procedures regarding environmental management are observed, and that the ecology of the project area should not be disturbed by the construction,” she said. She added that completion of the project would also stimulate tourism activities since visitors would like to watch the site, a move that will boost the economy of the country. To ensure timely completion of the project, the minister cancelled holiday vacation of the contractors and supervisors so that they continue working hard as per the signed contract. Upon completion, the project which is constructed by Arab Contractors and Elsewedy Electricity from Egypt, the JNHPP is expected to not only guarantee adequate supply of electricity, but lower the cost of the service to Tanzanians. The project will also enable the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) to have its own reliable electricity separate from households. During his tour to the project area recently, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa promised government commitment of ensuring timely payment to the constructors undertaking the JNHPP to enable them complete the grand scheme on time. The government has already disbursed 1.57tril/- out of 6.55tril/- budgeted for the project, with the Premier further saying payment was made in relation to the work done.