AS I am writing this, I am still looking for the council askari who thought that he was bright enough to confiscate my goods. I know you are wondering what goods I am talking about, but I have to be honest and inform you that for the last three days, I have been a very promising ‘machinga’ True story! for those of you who are ignorant enough to know who a machinga is, then I will tell you that these are the guys who are all over, even at the gates of State House, selling all sorts of goods, from sweets and cigarettes to car batteries, solar lights and even second hand under wears. I was forced to become a machinga after the man who calls himself my boss decided to give me a mighty boot and fire me, which means that I was minus my thin, measly paycheck which I receive every month, which is a poor excuse of a salary. That day I had reported to the office with a very nasty headache, which was a result of a rowdy night at Zakayo’s Pub, in the company of that fellow from the lake side called Jatello, Obama’s ‘cousin’. By the time I was parking my car at the office parking lot that day, all the music that was blaring at Zakayo’s was still loud and clear in my head, and as I climbed the stairs to the office, I could still hear glasses clinking on bottles and loud, merry laughter. In short the frothy liquid that I had swallowed was still very active in my head. As I stopped on the second floor to catch my breath and clear my head, I vaguely saw a group of people coming towards me from the top floor, and as they approached, I noticed that it was the boss in the company of a sizeable group of strangers. I was standing in the middle of the stairs, and the boss was leading his guests, and he looked at me as if he was seeing me for the first time, and when I greeted him, he scowled at me as if I was the grand child of the devil. “Baba Boyi, I can see that you had fun wherever you are coming from, please go to my office and wait for me, I really need to talk to you,” he said as he squeezed past me, followed by his guests. One of the entourage members, a pretty woman who was squeezed in a tight red dress, looked familiar to me, and as she was about to go around me, I blocked her path and offered her my hand. She looked at me in a manner to suggest that I was in dire need of a brain specialist and crinkled her nose as if the door to the brewery was suddenly opened right under her nose. “Madam, I have all the reason to believe that you graced my table with your elegant presence a few hours ago at Zakayo’s Pub, you remember, that lovely spot in Manzese!” I said as I tried to remind her that we danced singeli like two veteran dancers on the dusty dancefloor, but she sprinted down the stairs like a seasoned firefighter. I proceeded to the office, and the minute my back hit the chair, I was in dreamland, until a few minutes later when I felt my body being shaken violently. I opened my eyes, but it took a few minutes before I could focus, and in a smoky screen, I saw someone who had a close resemblance to my boss. Before I realized that it was indeed my boss, he was leading me to his office by the scruff of my neck, and before I could summon enough strength to resist the movement, we were already in his office. For some reason the man was fuming, and I later discovered that I was the source of his anger, as he sat in his seat and glared at me the way an angry father glares at a naughty child. “For all the years I have spent in my professional capacity, I have never been embarrassed the way you embarrassed me today, and to say the truth, this is the last straw!” he barked at me, and the pounding in my head increased tenfold. He told me, in vivid terms, that the people I saw him with were a delegation from the Italian Embassy, led by the ambassador himself, and that the lady I was trying to waylay on the stairs was his secretary. I tried to apologize to the man, but the guy was acting as if he was possessed by Italian demons, and he told me that if I was bright enough, I would just go back home before things became worse. I objected and told him that I had just arrived ready to work, and that there was nothing I was going to do at home anyway……I could literally see him clenching his fists, and I knew they were itching to land on my jaw. “Now listen here Baba Boyi, I know you don’t have any respect for this office, but it is 1 pm right now, the time you are reporting to work, and as if that is not enough, you try to convince the secretary of the Italian ambassador that she has been drinking with you in Manzese, are you for real!” he screamed in my face. To be honest, I did not realize that it was that late, and as I staggered back to the office, I made a vow to avoid Zakayo’s place for a whole month! When I turned up in the office the next day, I met the boss waiting for me at the top of the stairs, and he had an evil look on his face. Standing there, he looked like the devil welcoming his people to hell. He had an envelope in his hand, which I soon discovered that it contained my termination later. I read the letter and proceeded to give him a piece of my mind, telling him that the unhealthy paycheck he gave me every month was meant for his house girl. And that is why I decided to become a machinga, selling everything from toothbrush to pots and pans, that is until the council askaris decided that they did not need to see my face on the streets.