DEMAND for elephant liver and fat over claims they cure chronic diseases, including cervical cancer is prompting a new wave of poaching in the country, it has been said. The crackdown on poaching of endangered wildlife species has made great strides, especially in the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli. Deputy Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Conservation Commissioner, Dr Allan Kijazi, told the Editors’ Forum (EF) yesterday that authorities had noted with concern an upward trend of poachers spreading fake information on elephant liver and fat. “There are people who spread rumours that elephant liver and fat can cure liver cancer, cervical cancer and stomach ulcers,” he said, noting that there was no scientific evidence to prove it. According to the conservation commissioner, some people have thus been poisoning pumpkins and fixing nails on their compounds to trap and kill elephants. “Immediately, when an elephant dies some villagers run to collect liver and fat, while leaving others to make away with elephant tusks,” he said. He said stern measures would be taken against those doing such acts. This new development has come about amidst reports that elephant and rhino populations have begun rebounding in the country, effective crackdown on poaching and the elimination of organised criminal networks. Figures show the elephant population grew from 43,330 in 2014 to over 60,000 in 2019, thanks to a special taskforce launched by the government in 2016. President Magufuli said recently that the number of endangered rhinos had also increased from 15 to 167 during the first four years of his administration. Dr Kijazi noted, however, that following the President’s decision to approve the sale of bush meat at registered shops illegal trade involving the sale of wildlife in and outside the country was looming. He said there had been a wave of bush meat smuggling taking place contrary to law. “National resources are for all citizens and bush meat will be sold at special shops only,” he said, urging journalists to help expose such acts. Tanzania National Parks Authority (Tanapa) Senior Assistant Conservation Commissioner (Communications) Pascal Shelutete said Tanapa was organising a meeting with journalists to deliberate on the President’s national address as well as priorities of the ruling CCM election manifesto on conservation activities. The EF also is expected to highlight strategies Tanapa will be taking to fight against poaching and revive tourism that to some extent has been affected by the coronavirus pandemic.