UNIVERSITY of Dodoma (UDOM) is liaising with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism over a plan to bring a zoo to the national capital, Dodoma, it has been disclosed. UDOM Vice-Chancellor Prof Faustine Bee, speaking at the launch of the university’s Alumni Association's first general meeting, said the plan is a comprehensive strategy that seeks to improve efficiency and performance in academics, research and innovation. "A team of technocrats from the university have so far developed the proposal. “We’ll be seeking external opinion and inform the ministry for further action," he said. UDOM offers a degree programme in tourism. It is equally planning to start providing degrees on Wildlife Management in which it believes establishing a zoo will provide a ground of practice for students. Prof Bee said UDOM has been implementing a series of reforms to transform the institution to a world-class centre of excellence. Part of the transformation included removing 15 schools and 32 departments as well as establishing three new schools. The Vice-Chancellor invited the alumni to help attain such goals by becoming good ambassadors to local and international communities. Since its establishment in 2007, UDOM structures have been seating on a 6,000-hectare site at the Chimwaga area, 8 kms east of the central business district. UDOM authorities believe there is enough land to affix a zoo to help conserve the area. "Apparently, there is no such relaxation place in Dodoma and this will offer a better leisure spot for the university community and residents," Prof Bee said. UDOM Alumni Association interim chairman Dr Paul Loisulie said a total of 1,000 graduates had registered to be part of the association. Since its establishment, the university lacked a linking agency between graduates and the university. "This association will fill such gap and help improve cooperation and collaboration," he said. A total of 50,000 students have so far graduated at the university since 2007. An additional of 8,206 students will receive degrees, diplomas and certificates on Thursday (December 17,2020).