KAGERA Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti has directed a contractor undertaking construction of a multi billion project involving the construction of a modern Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) centre to ensure that the project is completed on time. Equally, he appealed to people where similar projects were being undertaken to ensure that they safeguard them and avoid vandalism for their own benefit and future generations. Mr Gaguti issued the directive when he made an impromptu visit at the project site on Tuesday to see the work progress. “This multi-billion project is of great importance. Apart from training youths in lifelong skills, it will also provide employment opportunities to surrounding villagers,” he said. He also turned down a request for time extension by the contractor, directing him to work day and night to ensure the project is completed before May 30th, next year as per contract agreement. He was informed by the Kagera Acting VETA Director, Mr Ezekiel Kahonga, that the project being undertaken by a Chinese contractor, Shadxi Construction Investment Group Ltd, will cost about 22.04bn/- upon completion and will enroll at least 800 students. The project will be undertaken in two phases. Under phase one, about 400 students on long courses will be enrolled, while under phase two about 1,000 students taking short courses will be enrolled, he said. He cited challenges facing the project to include shortage of water, noting that on a daily basis, at least 50,000 litres is needed, while a nearby water source provides about 10,000 litres during dry season. Mr Gaguti also directed the Rural Water Supply Agency (Ruwasa), to ensure the project gets reliable water because the funds were available. VETA is an autonomous government Agency established through the Act of Parliament No. 1 of 1994 Chapter 82 [Revised in 2006]. The overall objective of establishment of VETA is to oversee the Vocational Education and Training (VET) system in Tanzania. It is charged with the responsibilities of promoting, coordinating, providing, regulating and financing VET in the Country.