OCTOBER 10 marked one of the most significant dates in the growing Sino- Africa relations. It is the day 20 years ago that the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) was established at the first Ministerial Conference held in Beijing. The then President of Tanzania, late Benjamin William Mkapa, joined his Chinese counterpart His Excellency Jiang Zemin and other Heads of State from Togo, Zambia, Algeria and the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Dr. Salim Ahmed Salim to witness the birth of what was to become a global benchmark in multilateralism where all partners are in it for mutual benefit. The FOCAC, comprising of 54 African Countries, the African Union Commission, and the People’s Republic of China as partners, was formed to chart the direction for developing a new, stable, and long-term partnership featuring equality and mutual benefit between China and African Countries. FOCAC is arguably one of the most effective and vibrant multilateral mechanisms that fostered South-South cooperation. The forum meets every three years. In addition to the 2000 founding event in Beijing and two other meetings held in Beijing in 2006, other meetings have been held in Ethiopia, Egypt, and South Africa. The latest event, the 7th FOCAC Ministerial Conference, was held in Beijing in September 2018. The cooperation extends to trade, investment, development aid, soft-loans, technology, diplomacy, media, agriculture, culture, and peopleto- people exchanges. The 20th anniversary FOCAC celebration coincided with celebrating the 55th anniversary of the signing of the Friendship Treaty between Tanzania and China. Since the signing of the Treaty, bilateral relations have been exemplary in all aspects. Our two countries always reiterate their attachment to the international scene’s same principles and their constant concern to advance toward the consolidation of their bilateral cooperation. The two countries maintained political consultation at the highest level, notably through bilateral contacts between leaders and senior officials. Those contacts enabled them to assess their cooperation in various fields and examine the possibilities of promoting and developing them, particularly in the economic field, including trade, investment, tourism, infrastructure, and areas related to higher education, health, and military. The pandemic has enabled the world to witness the solid nature of Tanzanian-Chinese friendship once again. After the spread of the virus in Wuhan, Tanzanians expressed their solidarity and compassion to their Chinese brothers and sisters. The Tanzanian government even offered to send a medical team from Tanzania to Hubei province to join their Chinese counterparts in the fight against COVID-19. And when the Tanzanian people subsequently faced the pandemic, the Chinese authorities quickly showed their solidarity with Tanzania and granted donations to help the Tanzanian people fight against the epidemic. In addition to the aid, China also shared its experiences in fighting the virus through several videoconferences. By helping each other in difficult times, Tanzania and China have together opened a new page in the record of their fruitful cooperation. They have shown the world that the concept of a community with a shared future for humankind, promoted by China, requires practical actions from the international community members. China has been Tanzania’s largest trade partner and leading source of Foreign Direct Investment regarding economic relations. In the last 20 years, Chinese enterprises have strengthened their presence in Tanzania and participated in Tanzania’s development programs, especially in the field of infrastructures such as roads, railway, bridges, ports, and housing construction. Bilateral cooperation has also been expanded in the fields of health, agriculture, and military. The human dimension is also present in the framework of bilateral relations. Exchanges have been intensified in both directions, including students, journalists, and cultural events. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2013, is an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between Tanzania and China, particularly with regard to infrastructure connectivity and investment intensification. As an important partner of China in Africa, Tanzania will play a vital role in implementing this initiative, given its geographical location, economic potential, and diplomatic weight. Tanzania’s participation in the BRI will enable the coordination and harmonization of development programs and infrastructural connection. Projects such as Construction of Standard Gauge Central Railway Line, revitalization of TAZARA Railway and the old central line meter gauge railway, upgrading and expanding of Dar-es-Salaam, Tanga, Mtwara and Zanzibar Ports, construction of new airport terminal 3 in Dares- Salaam and New Terminal in Zanzibar, Ubungo Interchange will contribute immensely to the implementation of the BRI. Under the leadership of His Excellency John Pombe Joseph Magufuli, the President of the United Republic of Tanzania and His Excellency Xi Jinping, the President of People’s Republic of China, the prospects are bright for Tanzania-China cooperation after the pandemic, both bilaterally and within the framework of FOCAC and the BRI.