THE maker economy is here. While it has been growing steadily in some parts of the world such as the US, it remains a relatively new concept in the country. With time, however, it is touted to become an avenue for creating employment opportunities for many youth who would have otherwise been left in the cold in the job market after completion of their formal education. Maker economy, also known as Maker Movement, puts power in the hands of people to fund, design, prototype, produce, manufacture, distribute, market, and sell their own goods. When made the most out of it, it could be a significant source of financial independence to many people, mostly youth, and in the process provide a boost to the national economy. Since the concept is centered on inventions, aspiring innovators need access to platforms that will assist them to develop their ideas into viable commercial enterprises through training sessions and financial support. Initiatives such as Coders and Makers have been useful in helping shape a fair digital future in the country as attested by Coleman Ndetembea, founder of Kyaro Assistive Tech, an innovative start-up that has set its eyes on making assistive devices. At its nascent stage, the start-up began as a project at Twende Innovation Centre in 2018 while Ndetembea was still a college student where the founders were introduced to a school for students with special needs, Jaffar Academy, and saw first-hand the challenges the students faced. Ndetembea says that after seeing the difficulties the students were going through, they developed an idea to make a wheelchair that would have multiple functions - first as a wheelchair but also as a bench and a standing frame for exercising. He says that the benefits of the innovation will spread far and wide since it will provide ease of movement for the user who will in turn be able to easily access social services; it would help caretakers and would be affordable to parents or guardians of individuals with physical disabilities. “Once in the market, and we expect it to be rolled out as a commercial product as early as next year, the multipurpose wheelchair will be affordable because it is made from easy-to-access materials, mostly used bicycle parts. Its production is cost effective,” he noted. At the moment, the company has produced two bicycles being used by the students but the target is the public at large with the view of assisting people with chronic back pain and those suffering from the effects of a stroke and such other physically incapacitating illnesses. To get expert opinion and feedback, Ndetembea says that they have worked with CCBRT in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Region and they are working closely the Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH) to improve their product. “We have been receiving positive and actionable feedback and we have been gradually improving the product. The other benefit is that we intend for this project to be a full-time job as we envisage growing with time,” he said. Jocelyn Msigwa of Sahara Ventures and Project Manager of Makers Innovation Challenge is a component of Makers and Coders with focus on making. Coders and makers is an initiative to inspire the next generation of coders and makers. The initiative comprises the Makers Innovation Challenge and TV sessions concerning coding and making, which also engaged public and secondary schools in Tanga Region. The project is bridging the coding and making education gap with youth, it is a project funded by Botnar Foundation and is implemented by Tanzania Bora Institution in partnership with Sahara Ventures, she hinted. “Making in itself should be a culture encouraged and embedded in our younger generation. It is in fact, a habit that can promote active learning. It is without debate that the young mind should learn to bend, break, and combine things in a way never been designed before,” she said. The Makers finale is the climax phase of the challenge that began early this August. With up to 10 best-making concepts, the teams behind the concepts have gone through a 10-day boot camp that allowed them to learn critical things such as; prototype and design, validation, commercialization, team building, marketing and branding, design for manufacturing. Through the training, the teams were able to further improve and furnish their concepts and to this point, they can clearly communicate what they are building to potential partners and potential investors. Another participant in the Makers Innovation Challenge, Abbas Hassan, observes that they came with the concept of finding a solution for underground fuel measurement at filling stations and depots. “The main problem that we identified was in the fuel industry in Tanzania where such high value and dangerous stock are poorly and inefficiently managed. The idea came about when I visited a friend’s fuel stations where I witnessed them taking over 30 minutes just to know how much fuel was in one tank and the process also exposes employees to health hazards,” he said. Another noticeable challenge, he adds, is when taking measurement during the rainy season where more manpower is needed of fuel being adulterated by rain water. As such, he notes, in September 2019, he and his partner founded Lab X and started developing their first version of SENSX which is the prototype fuel level sensor which would allow owners/workers/regulators to have access to real time fuel data anytime anywhere. “The aim is to increase efficiency in management of stock at all stakeholder levels, protect employees by not exposing them directly to toxic fumes, and also to allow business to spot unaccounted for fuel losses as soon as possible,” he said. After visiting the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), Hassan says, he was informed that the regulator had to contact all registered filling stations individually just to know the amount of stock in their storage. “The other problem was that owners of multiple fuel stations have no way of tracking how their stations in other regions are performing. We then realized that it is a grave problem that needs an innovative solution,” he said. As for the Makers Innovation Challenge, the climax is slated for December 15 this year, with the theme ‘Advocating for makers awareness in the community’, with the aim of sparking a conversation and putting the best makers in the spotlight, and further discuss creative ways to spread awareness on the issue. According to Msigwa, the virtual event will involve listening to the teams pitch their ideas in front of judges and the audience.