BOXERS who will fight in the Night of Champions will step on the ring at Kimesi grounds, Dar es Salaam tomorrow for face-off. Boxers who will appear for face-off include all those who will fight on December 26th in the Night of Champions. The home-boxers will lock horns against neighbouring countries boxers from Malawi, Democratic Republic of Congo and Zimbabwe. Boxing fans will witness Twaha Kiduku who expects to fight against the Congolese Guy Tshimanga; Tony Rashid to face Hassan Milanzi (Zimbabwe); Abdallah Pazzy (Dulla Mbabe) against Simon Tcheta (Malawi); while Selemani Kidunda will exchange punches against Limbani Masamba (Malawi). Organizers of the Night of Championships have said the boxing bouts bring together experienced and well-performing boxers in the country in one ring. The big day will be staged at Next Door Arena in Dar es Salaam. The organizers have further called on boxing fans to appear in big numbers. Selemani Semunyu, who is among the Organizers, called upon all boxing fans to purchase their tickets and witness the most memorable day in boxing. Semunyu further said that, on that big day there will be an appearance of other boxers who will not fight but will be acknowledged for their attendance. “There are boxers who will attend the historical occasion but they will not fight on that night. Also there will be an attendance of some boxing stakeholders who will be recognized on that night for their contribution in the boxing development.” “The appearance of these boxers and stakeholders will signify that the day aims to celebrate boxing development in the country; as on that day we shall issue some prize to some.” Earlier in December the organizers announced the launching of the big night where tickets will be available at a minimum cost of 10,000/-. The organizers further urged boxing fans to get their ticket earlier before the set date as the tickets are limited. “The admission fee will be 10,000/ - for regular seats. I urge boxing fans to buy tickets early as they are limited and our mission is to fill the Arena.” “There will be other tickets at the price of 20,000 / -, 50,000 / - and 100,000 / -.” Prior to the fight, the boxers will meet for faceoff on December 20th at Kinesi Grounds. The faceoff will be graced with boxing bouts and fans will be admitted at a price of 3000 /-. The Secretary General of Tanzania Professional Boxing Regulatory Commission, Yahya Poli has reminded boxers to have a regular training routine that will develop their ability rather than waiting until dates of fights to begin preparations.