ZANZIBAR President, Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi has said his government will accord full cooperation to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) in its quest to receive advice for the major purpose of achieving the desired economic growth. Dr Mwinyi expressed his government’s commitment when he met a BoT delegation consisting of senior central bank officials from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar under its Governor Professor Florens Luoga at the Isles State House on Wednesday. He said as his government starts to implement plans to improve the economy, there is a need for BoT, through its experts, to advise Zanzibar on economic issues. Dr Mwinyi used the occasion to commend the Bank for its decision to upgrade its Zanzibar Office. He said that BoT has already contributed highly in the economic growth of Mainland Tanzania through various researches which has led to positive results in taxation, finance and expenditure. He said as a result of the studies carried out, revenue collection and financial systems have improved, insisting that Zanzibar also needs similar support. Dr Mwinyi informed the BoT senior officers that the biggest challenge for Zanzibar is how to best improve tax collection in the post Covid-19 period. Recently, the Isles President appointed an IT expert from BoT, Mr Rashid Rashid to the position of Deputy Permanent Secretary-Ministry of Finance & Planning, expressing confidence that the appointment was a gateway for the support. He said the appointed Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning in charge of tax and finance would help in designing new and effective tax collection measures. “Zanzibar is currently focusing on the Blue Economy in line with tourism, deep sea fishing and other sectors, this means that so much technical assistance will be needed from the central bank,” Dr Mwinyi said as he also stressed on the need to find a better way to help entrepreneurs currently facing difficulties in accessing loans because most cannot meet conditions. He added that despite the existence of the Economic Empowerment Revolving Fund, its results have not been impressive due to the perception of some debtors or those given the loan. He said most of those who receive the loan fail to pay back thinking that government money doesn’t need to be reimbursed. Professor Luoga congratulated President Dr Mwinyi for being elected by the majority people of Zanzibar and that BoT is committed  to work with  Zanzibar in ensuring that the Isles economy grows and becomes  more stable. The BoT governor hailed Zanzibar leadership for ensuring Isles economy performs better. He said the economy has continued to grow at a rate of an average of 6.8 per cent over the past five years with the services sector being the biggest contributor. He stressed that inflation remained stable as its rate dropped from double digit in 2011 of 14.7 per cent to a single digit of 5.4 per cent for the 2019/2020 period. Despite these successes, Professor Luoga said that there are still a number of challenges on which the central bank continues to provide permanent solutions in collaboration with various stakeholders, adding that despite the challenge of the impact of Covid-19, the banking sector has remained strong. Since assuming presidency, Dr Mwinyi has moved fast to further develop the Zanzibar economy which has been going from strength to strength. Currently, Zanzibar’s GDP stands 3.1tri/- with tourism contributing 30 per cent, agriculture 20 per cent, Industry 18 per cent and other sectors carry 12 per cent with an inflation rate that stands at 2.7per cent. Fishing sector contributes 2.6per cent of Zanzibar’s GDP and employs more than 200,000 people in the isles while more than 4000,000 others benefit from the sector. Zanzibar exports fish averaging 1,806 metric tonnes per year. Seaweed farming is a well-established industry in Zanzibar. It has created more than 25,000 jobs for the indigenous people especially women. Zanzibar is the third largest exporter of seaweed in the world, after the Philippines and Indonesia. Tourism is one of the fastest growing industries in Zanzibar and has attracted more than 68 per cent of investment projects approved by Zanzibar Investment Promotion Authority (ZIPA). The sector contributes 30per cent of the GDP, 80 per cent of foreign earnings and provides 60,000 direct employment opportunities. Dr Mwinyi believes Zanzibar can achieve economic growth and reduce the rate of unemployment through blue economy, trade and industrial development together with improving technical education. Among the plans and strategies of Dr Mwinyi on Blue Economy is promoting marine tools such as improving security in the coastal area, establishing marine spatial plan and establishing a special department of Blue Economy. Other crucial steps are; improving coastal tourism and encouraging conference and sport tourism. But great effort will be made in strategic training of youths in sectors of Blue Economy to boost efficiency and widen a room for employment. Dr Mwinyi, the 8th leader of the semi-autonomous Indian Ocean Island has been affirming to improve existing ports in terms of modern equipment and accountability, building new modern and big ports of cargo like Mpigaduri, Oil and Gas port of Mangapwani and other small fishing ports.