YOUNG Africans eventually shattered a goal-dry jinx after handing Mwadui a 5-0 blitz at Kamba- rage stadium in Shinyanga on Saturday. Striker Yacouba netted his first brace while speedy Deus Kaseke and Lamine Moro scored each to give their team the first victory by a big margin. Previously, it was a slim 1-0 win or 2-1 in most of their victories. The victory also placed Yanga far ahead of their closest challengers Azam and Simba who had stamped 27 and 26 points respectively prior to the Saturday's results. Just six minutes after the kickoff, Deus Kaseke scored an opener l for Yanga, completing Yacouba Sogne’s assist. Kaseke had another opportunity to pocket a second goal for his club, but his attempt was saved by Mwadui custody Musa Mbisa. After a long dry spell, Yacouba extended his team’s lead seven minutes later with a beautiful drive. Yanga made more attempts which would have given them more goals, but Mwadui’s goalie Mbise made a timely save. Just a minute before the end of the first half, Mukoko Tonombe came too close to score, but again his powerful shot was saved by Mbisa. The first half completed with Yanga leading 2-0. Yanga began the second half with vigour with Yacouba- Kaseke partnership making a big impact and the two first half goals were the testimony of that partnership. Four minutes after the start of the second half, Yacouba netted a third goal for his club. Yanga made more attempts and Tuisila Kisinda slammed home the fourth goal for Yanga in the 57th minute. His goal cleared the third goal barrier as it was the first time Yanga scored over three goals since the start of the 2020/21 season. Kaseke went to the bench in the 61st minute; his place was taken by Haruna Niyonzima. Yacouba was also subbed in the 67th and his place was taken by Farid Musa. Farid did not take too long to make an impact for his club, as he awarded the club skipper Lamine Muro with an assist that enabled him to fire home the fifth goal. The referee completed the game with a hefty 5-0 victory in favor of Yanga over Mwadui. Mwadui are so far the only side on the log to have suffered the biggest number of defeats (11) more than any other team while Yanga, on the other hand, remain the only unbeaten side after 15-game outings. Thus Mwadui need to pull up their socks if they want to stay put in the league next season by making sure that they collect maximum points in their next match or else, the relegation wrath will descend upon them. Mwadui are fixed second from the bottom with ten points. At the bottom is Ihefu who has not collected double digits in fourteen games played. In the other encounter, Dodoma Jiji pocketed a 1-0 victory over Gwambina FC at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. Seif Karihe was the club hero as he scored the winner in the 45th minute. The victory elevated Dodoma to 9th place while Gwambina climbed down to the 12th place.