THE fifth phase government’s resolve to ensure Tanzanians benefit directly from wildlife resources has started bearing fruit after the launch of a new bushmeat shop in Dodoma City at the weekend. This is an opportunity for those interested in bushmeat business. The launch of the new bushmeat shop follows President John Magufuli’s recent directive to find out ways for which the wildlife resources will benefit Tanzanians in terms of nutrition and incomes. His directive sought to remove barriers that prevent Tanzanians from selling and eating bushmeat. It is intended to enable Tanzanians participate actively in bushmeat business. Tanzania, which is rich in diverse, unique and attractive wildlife resources, depends much on this as an important source of revenue. Bushmeat remains to be a staple and source of animal protein among rural and urban consumers. The launch of the new bushmeat shop in the capital city of Dodoma marks a milestone in government efforts to utilise natural resources. It will now enable hotels and restaurants to add bushmeat to their menus. According to Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (Tawa), the launch of the bushmeat shop in Dodoma will be followed by the launch of other bushmeat shops across the country. Tawa emphasises that bushmeat business is well-managed to ensure poachers do not use it as a loophole for their criminal activities. The government efforts to ensure bushmeat shops are established countrywide will help create more jobs, leading to improved living standards and contribute to economic growth. Besides creating jobs and being a source of nutrition, bushmeat business will to a great extent mitigate illegal hunting that has been threatening wildlife and increase the conservation of wildlife resources. Through this initiative, the government has put it clear that it will make sure Tanzanians are given priority in running bushmeat business for income generation and job creation. Therefore, it is a unique opportunity for Tanzanians to utilise bushmeat business by establishing bushmeat shops in their areas to generate incomes and contribute to economic growth. This will in turn instil in them a spirit of valuing and protecting wildlife in the sense that they will learn that protecting wildlife will imply benefiting from bushmeat business unlike in the past when most people thought wildlife did not directly benefit them. As it is often stated ‘if we protect nature, it protects us’, so does wildlife. For sure, bushmeat business will uplift the lives of butchers and it will also contribute to the economy of the country. So, let us utilise this new source of nutrition and income – that is bushmeat.