AS Tanzanians commemorate the 59th Independence Anniversary, analysts are hailing the development path and speed the country is moving at, proposing a few areas which require attention. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, observers said having a visionary and development- oriented leader has enabled Tanzania and its people to realise development goals at a fast pace. They revealed that in the previous five years under President John Magufuli, the country witnessed major achievements in different areas including mining, infrastructure projects, the fight against graft as well as the education sector among others. The analysts further pointed out that the reason the country has attained its middle income status ahead of time is due to Dr Magufuli’s robustness and boldness in adopting different developmental models. They were of the view that though Tanzania, since independence, has recorded strides in almost all sectors, the quest for fast-paced development demonstrated by President Magufuli in his fifth-phase government, brought significant positive impact to the nation. According to Economics lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Prof Humphrey Moshi, projects being initiated, such as Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project along Ru fiji River is a reflection of the government’s determination to create a strong industrial economy in the near future. Prof Moshi who is also the Director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at UDSM noted that upon its completion, the Julius Nyerere project is expected to raise the gross economy of the country by 9-10 per cent. “The completion of this project alone will lead to establishment of many small projects, as a result people will be employed, thereby improving their incomes and reduce poverty,” said Prof Moshi He added: “As such it will lead to a collective economy due to engaging in productive agriculture focusing mainly on irrigation.” For the country to further excel, Prof Moshi said the president’s subordinates and the entire public need to fulfill their responsibility in their respective areas. As for the case of industrialisation, he asserted that the country should throw its weight on irrigation farming to produce enough raw materials for the country’s industries and food. He stressed on the importance of designing education curricula that places more focus on Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) curriculum so that graduates produced can fit in the job market. The Economist said patriotism and inculcating the culture of loving and using local manufactured products is an aspect that is important in propelling the country’s development. Political Science lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Dr Richard Mbunda was of the view that the country needs transformational leaders like President Magufuli, who has clear visions and is ready to protect the country’s resources and device projects that can boost the country’s economy. Dr Mbunda expounded that for the country to move fast, it should be in a position to make proper use of its own natural resources such as minerals, forestry products, land and others in boosting its own development. Demographic dividend is another aspect that Tanzania stands to benefit from in propelling its economy, the professor insisted. “The fact that the country boasts a population of 60 million plus people is a big plus because it constitutes a reliable market for its own industrial products, increasing the cash flow,” he said. On his part, a Political Scientist from the Ruaha Catholic University (RUCU), Prof Gaudence Mpangala said the late Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere had laid a good foundation in building the economy of the country that also attempted to bridge the gap between the haves and the have nots. “Thus, the country should also resort to embracing some elements of socialist instead of relying completely on the market economy,” he proposed.