YOUNG Africans will be aiming to continue their winning streak in the progressing Mainland Premier League when they take on Mwadui at CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga today. It will be the battle between the current league leaders against the 17th placed side who have garnered 10 points from their 14 encounters and remain tied to the danger zone at the bottom of the table. Mwadui are so far the only side on the log to have suffered defeats (10) more than any other team while Yanga, on the other hand, are the only side yet to swallow the bitter pill in the contest. They need to pull up their game if they want to stay put in the league next season by making sure that they collect maximum points in their next match or else, the relegation wrath will descend upon them. In a nutshell, it has been a poor start for them especially in this first round as they have failed to show their venom but, whenever they face big teams, they usually show a spirited fight. Losing 10 games in the first round of the season is surely a bad indicator for a side which is serious to do well in the league as such, the fast they sort themselves out, the better it will be for them to begin fighting for the survival. A win by Yanga will drive them to 37 points from 15 games with two matches to go before winding up the league’s first round’s duels, and their second round game will be played on December 31st against Tanzania Prisons at Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga. After today’s match, Yanga will host Dodoma FC at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha next Saturday before travelling to Mbeya region to face debutants Ihefu FC who lately sit at the base of the 18-table ladder with 7 points. According to Yanga Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli, their game against Dodoma which was initially planned to be played in Dar es Salaam has been deliberately shifted to the tourist city of Arusha to give their supporters a chance to watch live their team play. “We have a big fan base in Arusha that is why the game has purposely been transferred to be played there. It is our hope that people will turn out in big number to cherish their team,” he said. Again, Bumbuli confirmed that the newly paraded striker from Burundi Saidi Ntibazonkiza will have a chance to play his first game while in Yanga shirts against Dodoma hence a good chance for Arusha residents to first see him on the field of play. The Burundian player will be eligible to play for Yanga on the day since the mini transfer window is set to be opened on December 16th (Wednesday next week) to January 15th next year and their game against Dodoma falls on December 19th.