IN the next five years Tanzania will be striving to have export-led economy driven by the private sector to take the country up another notch in the middle income. Employers in the private sector met in Dar es Salaam last week during their Annual General Meeting to brainstorm a way forward for them to contribute more towards sustaining the country’s middle economy status. Among other things, the issue of skilled labour came at the top of the agenda. The participants said that for them to become more competitive in the regional and global market they would need workers with the required skills. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa graced the meeting, with emphasis being on government’s on-going skills development programme and the role of employers in supporting the government. The meeting also was part of marking the 60th anniversary of the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE). Addressing employers, the Prime Minister said recently Tanzania managed to get into the list of middle income countries, citing the issue of skills development as one of the criteria for getting to that stage. He said skills development was among priorities in the Development Vision 2025, and the matter is well addressed in preparation of the Third National Five- Year Development Plan which lays emphasis on developing an individual’s skills. “I want all employers countrywide to continue supporting these efforts of developing skills by giving opportunity to graduates to learn practical skills from your workplaces. This would help in producing many youth with skills for the national benefit,” he argued. He stated that the government decided to join forces with the country’s employers on this matter as national strategy in ensuring that youth acquire necessary skills. He therefore instructed all employers to prioritize skills development trainings at their workplaces to enable youth acquire skills to make them become employable and create their own jobs. “I call upon all employers to ensure you implement programmes of on-job training at your workplaces to improve skills and make your employees more efficient and increase productivity,” the Premier insisted. He noted that the government has been effectively implementing the programme of skills development. Since 2017, the government has trained over 35,000 youth by sending them to colleges under the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA). Some of those graduates were attached to public and private companies for the same purpose of acquiring job skills. He said the youth were trained on various fields including agriculture, industry and others. “Our aim is to make all youth graduated with different level of education get skills,” Mr Majaliwa stated. It was encouraging to note that the employers have accepted this role of attaching the youth at their workplaces. “I assure all of you (employers) that whoever has capital will have government’s support to establish business and become good employers to help the government in addressing unemployment problem,” he stated. Mr Majaliwa went on informing the employers that the government implement various development projects meant to empower public and private companies conduct their economic activities. For instance, power projects, including a mega Nyerere Hydropower project which will in the future expected to provide reliable and affordable electricity to employers who run activities that depend on power. The government through the CCM’s manifesto 2020- 25 is committed to ensure it keeps better environment to ease doing business within and outside the country, he assured. “We have good intention of boosting the economy, and we need ideas from you (employers),” he appealed. Emphasizing on increasing export, Mr Majaliwa told employers to ensure that their companies exploit regional markets since Tanzania is a member of different regional blocs including the East African Community (EAC) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). He further told the employers to closely work with the government by offering advice on areas of skills development that the government could put more emphasis. “We (the government) know that the issue of science and technology need to get more emphasis in enabling more Tanzanians go together with digital technology development,” he acknowledged. The Prime Minister went further to condemn attitude by some employers of offering employments to foreigners and rejecting Tanzanians with the same knowledge and skills. “Many Tanzanians now have integrity, they are hard workers and they are employable. And we have laws governing the matter so you should look at them when employing foreigners,” he reminded employers. Regarding empowering private sector, Mr Majaliwa said President John Magufuli had already expressed commitment towards enabling more engagement of private sector in the country’s economy. Some of incentives were to scrap nuisance levies, and so far the government has removed a total of 168 levies in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and others relating to trade. Earlier, ATE board chairperson, Ms Nyimbo, promised that the association would closely cooperate with the government to build the national economy. “I ask employers to do more efforts in imparting skills on youth at workplaces,” Ms Nyimbo said. She said the employers have trust on the President Magufuli over addressing challenges facing them. The chairperson, however ,requested the government to continue reducing the Skills Development Levy (SDL) from current 4 per cent to 2 per cent to enable employers also allocate enough budget to conduct on-job trainings to their employees. Secretary General of the Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA), Mr Saidi Wamba, appealed to employers to have tendency of conducting dialogue with their employees during conflicts, saying that dialogue was an effective remedy to conflicts at workplaces. He also underlined an importance of involving employees by considering their views making decisions for companies. Contributing his views, Mr John Ulanga, country director of the Trade Mark East Africa, advised that the country should ensure that the national economy grows more than population or the two should go together. Mr Ulanga was of the views that since Tanzania is bordering with many land locked countries which depend on country’s ports for their exports and imports, there was a big economic opportunity by making revolution in logistics subsector. When making presentation, Executive Director of the Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA), Dr Donald Mmari, said Tanzania has climbed to middle income due to increased investors, domestic revenues and exports. To maintain this status or go the higher position, Dr Mmari said the country should do, among others, transform agriculture to large scale farming and continue reducing bottlenecks to businesses.