THE government plans to establish a mobile phone factory in Mwanza Region that will provide employment and practical training for graduates in the field of information and communication technology (ICT). The construction works of the mobile phone plant which is expected to commence early next year, will build capacity to young graduates in ICT by giving them the confidence to compete in the market. The Director of Licensing and Monitoring from Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), John Daffa said this recently at the 9th graduation of the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA)- Kipawa, in Dar es Salaam. Mr Daffa said a feasibility study has been conducted for the factory and other preparations are ongoing and upon its completion, the factory will provide employment to many young Tanzanians who studied ICT. “So far the initial preparations for the construction of the mobile phone factory in Mwanza Region have been completed and most of the Tanzania graduates will take active role as technicians to promote ICT development,” he said. He said the plastic and metal body of the mobile phone of high value materials gold and coltan. Thus, the damaged mobile phones will be recycled to make other items like plastic bottles. He initially urged the graduates to use the skills acquired for the sustainable development and national interests. He urged the graduates who are telephone technicians to ensure security and that mobile phones equipment are not hacked. Mr Daffa said TCRA will continue to sponsor mobile phone technicians who meet the required criteria. The Veta Kipawa Principal, Dickson Mkasanga said, the college offers a wide range of ICT training courses where participants are provided with various telecommunications techniques to help them in accidents, by using security systems equipment. Mkasanga said the college plays a key role in producing skilled human resources to the community to facilitate the need for technological change in the ICT industry, but also to accelerate the process of continuing and improving vocational training education in the country to meet the requirements. He expressed satisfaction after the college got permission to offer mobile phone technical training where his curriculum has received official approval from the National Technical Council (Nacte) June this year. “I am proud to inform you that our college has received approval to provide mobile phone technical training where its curriculum has received official approval from the Nacte. This makes the course legal and officially recognised by the government nationally and internationally,” he said. On his part, Mr Anzamen Frank, the representative of the graduates, said the success they have achieved practically has been a great help in building the capacity that makes them successful. Mr Frank said some of them have already started a small workshop due to such skills as a translation of entrepreneurship in practice. He advised that the curriculum taught should be in line with the pace of change in science and technology, as it is a real requirement to align with President John Magufuli’s slogan of ‘hapa kazi tu’ to keep them strong, especially in the competition for skills when looking for jobs or self-employment by providing better services.