I HAVE this addictive habit of watching extremely thrilling/horror movies then spending the entire night scaring myself and going to the washroom every hour because my bladder can’t hold all the fear within. Why I torture myself? Beats me. But I convince myself that that is how I face my fears. Hero much? You bet. 2020 was a horror movie. I was at my very worst. Hit rock bottom and was scared of myself more than anything else in this life. Being your enemy is one thing but knowing you are your enemy is something else. The fight between yourself and your mind is endless. If 2020 was a movie, it would be ‘underwater 'for me. That was one of the most popular and 2020 best thriller and horror movie. 2020 was ours underwater. I was blindly stumbling my way through the days for survival, trying to not look directly into the eyes of the monster; our self-sabotaging being. We just wanted to get to the end of it. But you know what? I love the thrill. I am a total thrill freak but covid was nerve-wracking and caused us so much pain. When Disaster strikes more than six miles below the ocean surface when water crashes through the walls of a drilling station. Led by their captain, the survivors realize that their only hope is to walk across the seafloor to reach the main part of the facility. But they soon find themselves in a fight for their lives when they come under attack from mysterious and deadly creatures that no one has ever seen. This movie unleashes our lives under the masks and tight measures that were placed on lockdown that cost us so much. From needing more in life to just being grateful for what we have, 2020 has humbled us. So when I say it was the roughest year for me, I also mean it was the most intense, challenging year globally. I can't even see the silver lining here y’all. Being an extremely anxious person makes me very impatient in everything. I don’t give myself adequate time for anything. Not for healing, not for love, not for my dreams either. I have this clock that keeps tik-toking in my head; always reminding me how I’m running out of time. For what you ask? I have no idea. This is where the Marshmallow test comes in. The Marshmallow study is a famous social-science test among educators and psychologists because it is something we learn about. The study itself is about delayed gratification done in the 1960s by a Stanford professor. So the experiment was that a child is taken into a room that has a marshmallow on the table. The experimenter then tells the child that they are leaving the room and that if they wait until the experimenter comes back without eating the marshmallow, then they will get another one. So the choice was simple: one marshmallow right now or two marshmallows later. The experimenters believed that the study was a measure of the future success of the children participants. So the child is then left in the room alone with the marshmallow. Now the hardest part is that there is no distraction. It’s just the child staring at the marshmallow. Some kids ate it the right way, some hesitated right away before giving in to the temptation and others were patient enough to wait for the other one so they get two. The experimenters followed up on the progress of the children even decades later and found that the children who were willing to delay gratification and waited to receive the second marshmallow ended up successful in every aspect of life. In short, the study proved that the ability to delay gratification was critical for success in life. Mind-blowing right? (You can Google more on the Marshmallow study) So how does this relate to my 2020? One of the hardest things I’ve ever had to do as a person struggling with anxiety is to trust the process; belief in the power of delayed gratification. I took up a job that you only see the fruits of your hard work more than six months later and I failed at different writing opportunities I looked forward to among other things. My writing journey has been long with slow baby steps. And don’t get me wrong, I appreciate my baby steps. I do. I do treat myself whenever I achieve one of my tiny goals. But then there’s the self-sabotaging anxious self that wants you to see how you’ll never make it underneath the ocean (Y’all should watch ‘underwater' if you haven’t. Oh! and the memes are so lit! Memes are the best part of anything yo). So 2020 is the year my patience was tested the most. But I keep reminding myself of the greater reward. Of the best to come. Of the two Marshmallows at the end of the day. I keep reminding myself that my baby steps will someday add up to something. I believe it will but for now, it is an endless war with my mind that wants the easy, shortcut and immediate reward of one Marshmallow. But you know what? I want two Marshmallows. Hell, I want a hundred of them. So I’ll wait. I’ll wait to see how I will after am out of the underwater, I’ll wait because I have faith that God is with me. If I don’t make it, I know I’ll have died trying and that counts. It means a lot. Don’t get me wrong. 2020 was not entirely a black cloud on my head but to the majority it was. I have my family with me and I realize that’s a big blessing every single day despite the threat of life the pandemic brought us. Hey, where are my anxious fellow humans? Let’s wait for the basket full of Marshmallows okay? We got this. I know we can. I know we do Better days ahead. 2020 is our year. Yet again we preach. Amen!