AS part of efforts by Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) to ensure all ports in major lakes in the country operate in accordance with the law, the Authority has now identified a total of 693 unofficial terminals. TPA Director of Legal Services, Ms Leticia Mutaki revealed this over the weekend in Mwanza during a stakeholders meeting, saying out of the 693, 329 were on Lake Victoria. According to Ms Mutaki, Dar es Salaam alone was accommodating 116 unofficial ports followed by Lake Tanganyika with unlicensed 108 terminals. The director divulged more statistics, saying while Mtwara had 73 dumb ports, Tanga had 50 unofficial ports. Lake Nyasa, according to Ms Mutaki, had 17 unofficial terminals. “The only ports we recognize on Lake Victoria’s coastline on Mwanza side include Mkombozi, Kamanga, Nile perch fisheries and Nyehunge,” she said. She said increase in economic activities which involve movement of large quantities of goods and people is among the reasons behind the increase in unregistered ports. She said TPA continues to inspect the ports to establish the nature of business and activities taking place in all unregistered terminals and act in accordance with the law, including formalizing their operations. She said TPA amended the Ports Act of 2004 to involve stakeholders in ports-related operations. She added that section 47 of the new law requires all motor vessels to embark or disembark passengers or goods at a registered inland waterway port, a measure enables TPA to collect its rightful revenue. According to her, any person in need of dealing with port activities is duty bound to enter an agreement with TPA and obtain a licence from Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC) before getting into operations. Assistant Manager of the Port Service from Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Mr Oswald Massawe advised TPA to make sure all ports are formalized because the government loses lots of revenues. A stakeholders' representative from Nyehunge Ferry, Mr Anwar Said commented that the amendments of the law will now give room for them to operate the ports under special arrangement in agreement with the Authority. According to TPA, no stone will be left unturned until all unofficial and privately-owned ports that operate in all major water bodies in the country are formalized. “Regional and District Commissioners and other local government leaders should support TPA’s plan to identify all ‘dump ports’ that aims at not only increasing government revenue but also keep the country safe from dangerous elements,” he said.