THE Zanzibar Ministry of Education and Vocational Training plans to issue guidelines on the use of graduation gowns and caps at graduation ceremonies. Minister Simai Mohammed Said noted that there had been inappropriate use of the graduation gowns and caps, as even nursery and secondary schoolchildren wore them. “Let us respect the proper use of gowns and caps as it has been in the past. It should not be worn at any level of education. Let us set standards because it is another way of encouraging the youth to study hard so that they may reach higher levels of learning and wear them,” Mr Mohamed said as he graced FEZA School graduation ceremony in Kisauni. He said it was known that education gowns and caps were worn at university level and beyond and not at nursery, primary and secondary levels. So, he promised to make reforms by introducing guidelines on the graduation dress code. The graduation at FEZA was also an opportunity for the minister to remind parents, guardians and teachers to collaborate in nurturing children to grow and become mature and responsible citizens. “Education remains a key requirement in everyone’s life. It is one of the basic rights everyone deserves. That is why the government continues improving and providing education free of charge from nursery to secondary level in public schools,” he said. The minister also said while education was free in public schools, the government had also been supporting private schools by providing guidelines so that all children in the country got quality education. “In addition to normal teaching, I advise you to encourage study tours in historical sites and promote inter-school debates and learning competitions on various subjects or topics because they help children improve learning skills and be well-informed on current affairs,” he said. Mr Ali Nunghu, head teacher of FEZA School, thanked the minister and the government at large for continued support, which had contributed to their best performance in the country.