TEMEKE Municipal Acting Executive Director Mr Deogratius Lukomanya (left), receives bags of cement from NBC’s Head of Corporate Banking Linley Kapya as an aid to improve learning environment in public schools of Temeke Municipality in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. (Photo: Courtesy of NBC) IN a bid to improve learning environment at public schools in Temeke Municipality, National Bank of Commerce (NBC) has donated 236 bags of cement for construction of school infrastructures in the municipality. The bags were handed over to Temeke Municipal Acting Executive Director Mr Deogratius Lukomanya by NBC Head of Corporate Banking Mr Linley Kapya who pledged to continue backing government efforts to improve education, health, environment and community development. Mr Kapya stated that the bank has a culture of sharing with community part of its profits made from commercial activities and the donation is part of the bank’s corporate social responsibility contribution to the community. He added that, the bags of cement would help improve the quality of education since giving the uncompleted schools a facelift would ensure a serene atmosphere for effective teaching and learning. “Today we are sharing our profit with Temeke Municipal Council in bid to improve school infrastructure in the municipality. As a financial institution operating in this area, we felt that it is crucial to support such an initiative so that we can give back part of the profit we make to the community” He said. He pointed out that the donation was made after officials from the Municipality approached the lender to request for support to repair and build rundown public schools in their area. “The council came to us with various requirements from the schools amongst which were construction of toilets. We felt that it is crucial to support such an initiative,” Kapya noted. In receiving the donation, Temeke Municipal Acting Executive Director Mr Lukomanya thanked NBC for the gesture. He expressed gratitude to the bank saying the municipality schools have projects which the cement will assist to complete. He mentioned the schools that will benefit from the support and the number of bags for each that Toangoma (20), Charambe (15), Faraja (10), Mbagala (20), Marten Lumbanga (10), Kibonde Maji (20), Kilimahewa (15), Kingugi (15), Ukombozi (20), Likwati (15), Yombo Dovya (20), Kizuiyani (36) and Nzasa (20) primary schools. Mr Lukomanya called on all lending institutions in the district to come on board and support the education sector since most of their clients are teachers. “We take seriously your level of support because there is a lot of reconstruction going on at the mentioned schools. On behalf of the Temeke Municipal Council and the Government, we thank you for your gesture of support.’’ “Further, I call on private companies, non-governmental organizations and wealthy individuals to assist public schools in our municipality," he added. He further appealed to parents and guardians to take advantage of the free educational system and send children of school-going age to school.