UNLIKE last season when they were knocked out in the first match, Premier League reigning champions, Simba started well their CAF Champions League campaign this time when they beat Nigeria’s Plateau United by a lone goal in their own backyard on Sunday. But the fact that they only managed to win the match by a lone goal, should not make Simba lower their guard when they take on their opponents in a return leg at the comfort of their own fans at the sprawling, Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. The question that Simba simply need to ask themselves is if they could do what they did and away from home, what should stop their counterparts from performing the same feat? Besides, one goal is not a score that should make Simba sleep on their laurels. It certainly gives them an edge, but in the return leg, Simba will have to work extremely hard to strengthen their lead and they can only do that by scoring more goals. It is important for them to note that the Nigerian club has been wounded. And besides, before their defeat, Simba had been a closed book for them. But after the match, they are no longer a mystery side for them. They have learnt a lot about Simba’s strength and weaknesses and they will now be all out to ensure that they not only level matters, but win the match. And the only way of doing that, I see the Nigerians working very hard in the remaining ten days to the return leg, to build their staying power in the game. Now staying power is one of our teams’ major problem, from clubs to the national soccer teams. The only team that impressed me recently, in terms of staying power, is our newly crowned COSAFA U-17 national team who beat Zambia four weeks ago to win the regional trophy. The girls who had been beaten by a lone goal very early in the game, did not relent. They played tirelessly and at very high pace from the start of the match to the end and that is why they managed to level the score and win the match. For the game tapered on, Zambia took off their proverbial foot from the accelerator and resorted to time wasting as they panted for air. And that was their major undoing, as they allowed the Tanzanian girls not only to equalize, but finally to also win the match. Now this is what should not be lost on Simba. Fine, they scored a goal in Nigeria. But that goal is not enough to win a match in this era of modern soccer. They should only celebrate after winning the second match in their return leg in Dar es Salaam. I’m quite sure, Simba’s chief coach saw numerous loopholes not only in their opponents, but also in his own team which need to be used against their opponents and plug them in his own team. If they go through against the Nigerians, here is my suggestion for the Simba team and in particular, the management, our other representatives, Namungo FC and the Tanzania Football Federation. It is time they started exploring the possibility of paying for the Taifa Stars chief coach to travel along with our teams in these competitive continental soccer tournaments. The national soccer team’s chief coach could help our club coaches in providing advice on techniques and tactics which could be employed against our teams’ opponents in next game. But if our teams start at home, then it should be the onus of our national chief coach to do the same thing as he seats on the stand, to learn the visiting opponents’ strength and weaknesses and pass them on to our local coaches. In 1993, Simba lost the continent’s Confederation Cup during the final in Dar es Salaam because the then club’s chief coach, Abdallah ‘King’ Kibadeni employed the same formation, techniques and tactics his club had employed away from home against Ivory Coast’s Stella Abidjan where Simba had managed to successfully hold their opponents to a goalless draw. We would not have known of Kibadeni’s mistake had it not been for the admission of the Ivorian club’s chief coach after his team had beaten Simba in the Cup final by two goals to nil and all in the first 15 minutes of the game. “After being held to a goalless draw on our own backyard,” said the Ivorian coach, “I decided to gamble…I knew if my fellow coach was smart, he would change his team’s formation.” He said but because he did not know what formation he would use in the return leg in Dar es Salaam, he said he decided to work on how to destroy the formation Kibadeni had used in Ivory Coast and it paid off handsomely because his counterpart was not smart enough. Now had Kibadeni been accompanied by another coach, preferably, the national soccer team’s chief coach, things may have been different and Simba may have gone on to win the first continental trophy in soccer for the nation. As they say. Learning has no end. We need to keep on learning from others and soccer is not different. The chief coach of England’s national soccer team, the Three Lions, Southgate, travels with clubs, in turns, to watch them play in their respective Champions League matches and other soccer tournaments. The objective is not only to follow the progress of the players who already play for his team, but also to see potential national soccer players. And knowing our highly and vastly advanced soccer experts in very advanced European soccer nations, I’m quite sure England’s club coaches share a lot with Southgate both in terms of progress of their players and how they can make their players perform better. And if they can talk over what should be done to improve their players’ performance, then there is no reason why they should not share their knowledge even what to do in terms of coaching.