PERMANENT Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Finance and Planning Dotto James has urged graduates to use the knowledge they have acquired from higher education institutions in changing society, including fighting against poverty. The PS made this call at the 44th graduation ceremony of Institute of Social Work (ISW) in Dar es Salaam recently where 1,639 graduates were awarded certificates, diplomas and degrees for successfully completing their studies. "As you go to the world to practice what you have gained here, be patriotic to your country and ensure that what you do is for the benefit of the people. Be willing to address the challenges you will face," he said. He added: "Wherever you go, maintain the good reputation of your institution by ensuring that you work hard and respect your colleagues who you will be working together with." Mr James further said the government would continue supporting the youth by giving them a better foundation of education so that they could be competitive in the job market. He, therefore, said that the government would do whatever necessary to improve infrastructure and create an enabling learning environment. In his remarks, former president of the students’ government at ISW, Mr Andrew Kirumbi urged continuing students to adhere to existing rules and regulations and perform well to achieve their academic goals. He also thanked the government for improving the standard of education and continuing to work closely with ISW to groom them professionally, while insisting that they would use the gained knowledge wisely to serve the nation. A graduate in Business Administration, Mr Moile Loorbuwka, noted that the job market was very competitive, hence graduates were required to think outside the box and be innovative to easily make it. "Graduating is one thing and making it real in the world is another thing. But the most important point is not to lose focus and always be ready to come up with new ideas to deal with obstacles standing ahead," he said.