FOUR Members of Parliament on Alliance for Change and Transparency—Wazalendo on Tuesday took the Parliamentary oath of integrity, pledging to electrify the House dominated by legislators from the ruling CCM party. Khatib Said Hajji (Konde, ACT-Wazalendo) said shortly after taking the oath before Speaker Job Ndugai here that the delayed act should not be translated as the party’s decision to evade responsibilities but “the collective decision for the broader interests of the nation.” “We’re late but we were not evading responsibilities,” he said, assuring the National Assembly Speaker Mr Ndugai not to be skeptical of their presence. Under the Tanzanian constitution and the National Assembly outstanding rules, newly elected MPs are required to take an oath shortly before being assigned parliamentary duties. While all other elected MPs took oath early last month, ACT – Wazalendo members took the back seat in what was described as a pending decision within the party following the October General Election results. “After the election, we wanted to satisfy ourselves with every decision we made and now we are happy with the Government of National Unit (GNU),” he said. He noted that the constitutional agreement will help strengthen security and stability in the Isles. The MP, who defected from the Civic United Front (CUF) after the 11th Parliament, maintained that the decisions of the party took into account the broader national interests and the well-being of the country. “We trust and we have confidence in our president and the vice president. The two have been trekking from one mosque to the other every Friday preaching of peace in the Isles,” he said. Others who took oath include Omar Ali Omar (Wete), Khalifa Mohamed Issa (Mtambwe) and Salim Mohamed Shafi (Chonga). National Assembly Speaker Ndugai assured the MPs of the parliament’s support, noting that every voice will count under his administration. Mr Ndugai said the Parliament received the four names from the National Electoral Commission (NEC). He announced that all MPs who were sworn-in will be required to report to the Parliament mid next month. Minister of State Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled Jenista Mhagama said the government appreciates the GNU and that as the minister she will offer all the needed support to the MPs to facilitate and enhance unity.