A TOTAL of 557 people died while 891 others were injured in 2,770 fire incidents and other disasters recorded between January and December, this year, a report from Fire and Rescue Force has revealed. According to a report that was issued on Wednesday by the communications department of the brigade, during the year 2020 that ends today, there were a total of 1,925 fire incidents that killed 62 people including 45 men and 17 women. The fire incidents left some 74 people with injuries from which, men were 52 while women were 22. The brigade also took part in the rescue mission in 845 disasters that killed 495 people, including 402 men and 93 women. 817 escaped with injuries of whom, 570 were men and 247 women. Such disasters included floods, road accidents, and the collapse of mine as well toilet pits in different areas. “Apart from facing these disasters, the brigade has been providing public education on preventive measures against fire outbreak,” read part of the statement issued by the brigade’s spokesperson Inspector Joseph Mwasabeja. Moreover, the brigade has been inspecting buildings and to establish whether they are safe and free from hazards. This has gone together with investigating sources of fire that has been occurring in different places including schools. “Apart from inspecting buildings, we have also been issuing professional advice to the owners of the buildings and the general public’s aim being at reducing risk of occurrence of the hazards and fire outbreak,” he said. Moreover, this year, a total of 44 schools caught fire and caused death of some students, destroying infrastructure and school assets, where after the investigation, it was established that the fire was caused by recklessness, sabotage and electrical fault. In boarding schools, the investigation established that the fire was caused by students who tampered with the electrical wiring system, as they made cables to be used on charging their mobile phones against school rules. “Some of the students have been secretly using electrical appliances such as heaters, steam irons as well as careless usage of candles and kerosene lamps when there is a power cut,” he added. In a bid to reduce fire outbreak in schools, the brigade has signed an agreement with Tanzania Scout Association (TSA), for them to start training students on safety measures to be applied on minimising fire outbreaks. Inspector Mwasabeja added that the force has managed to establish a total of 786 fire and rescue clubs in primary and secondary schools that have 34,018 members. “We are also planning to increase the number of fire fight engines for districts and regions, following the recent agreement that we had signed with the Tanzania Automotive Technology Centre (TATC),” he said.