KCMC Regional Referral Hospital has completed construction of a cancer patients ward, the first of its kind in the Northern Zone. Previously, cancer patients in Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Manyara and Tanga used to travel to Dar es Salaam or outside the country to seek treatment. Speaking during the inauguration of the ward in Moshi yesterday, the Head of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania (ELCT) Bishop Dr Frederick Shoo reminded the government of its promise of building a bunker for cancer treatment through radiation. A bunker is a facility which is used to house a medical linear accelerator (LINAC), a device used for external beam radiation treatment of cancer patients. It delivers high-energy x-rays or electrons to the region of the patient’s tumor. The LINAC must be shielded by the bunker to prevent high-energy rays from escaping the treatment room. “The presence of a bunker here at KCMC Super Referral Hospital will be a major step forward for the care and treatment of cancer patients. The patients will be able to receive radiation treatment, thus reducing their burden of traveling to the Dar es Salaam- based Ocean Road Hospital,” said Dr Shoo said. He is also the Head of the ELCT Northern Zone and Chairman of the Good Samaritan Foundation (GSF), which owns and runs the KCMC Super Zonal Referral Hospital. KCMC Executive Director Prof Gilead Masenga said the construction and inauguration of the cancer ward building is a fulfillment of the dream of the hospital leadership. “Since the introduction of the cancer care centre here in 2016, a total of 24,823 patients have been subject to cancer-related services. The presence of the new ward is a comfort to cancer patients as it will strengthen treatment services,” he said. Prof Masenga, also by the virtue of his post the CEO of the Super Referral Zonal medical facility, doubles as the Secretary General of the GSF. He said the ward building is worth 1.8bn/-. The new facility will house 10 rooms -- among them to mention but a few -- four Isolation rooms, one intensive care unit (ICU) and a pediatric room. The project was facilitated by the GSF in collaboration with the United States-based Foundation for Cancer Care in Tanzania (FCCT), which largely funded the project as well as the Mission One World and the German-based Bavaria Church. Prof Masenga praised the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children for continuing to provide cooperation to the KCMC in different areas. The head of the Cancer Unit at the hospital, Dr Furaha Serventi, said that the construction of the wards was a major step in providing cancer treatment services. “At least, 80 per cent of the patients who come for treatment at the KCMC are in a critical condition that requires ward services,” he said. He said the hospital management expects to recruit a pediatric cancer treatment specialist as soon as possible.