YOUNG Africans have a chance to hit 40 points at the summit of the Premier League table only if they manage to source a victory against debutants Dodoma Jiji at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha today. It will be the battle between the current league leaders versus 9th placed side with each team looking sharp to collect maximum three points and keep marching forward in the tense contest. Initially, the match was set to be staged at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam which is a home venue for Yanga, but they opted to shift it to Arusha to give an opportunity to their fans to watch them play live. Until now, the country’s tourism city (Arusha) has no team which parade in the top flight league hence, a golden opportunity for its dwellers to get the glimpse of how it feels to have a side in the lucrative league. All their hopes are now directed to Arusha FC which is fighting hard to earn league promotion next season as such, they ought to play lungs out in the First Division League (FDL) where they are packed in group B. Going into the match, hosts Yanga, on paper have a big advantage to become victors following the impressive form they have had in the league as they put in all in each and every game they play. Their latest score in the league was a heavy 5-0 triumph over Mwadui FC at CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, their big victory so far in the unfolding campaign hence, people are eager to see how they will approach today’s clash. However, much focus will be on the new recruited Yanga striker Saido Ntibazonkiza who is set to officially begin Mainland Premier League journey with the Jangwani based club today. Ntibazonkiza has lately become the mostly talked player in the country especially after netting a brace during the recently played friendly match against Singida United in which Yanga won 3-0. His fame grew when he scored the solitary goal for Burundi against Tanzania in a past FIFA International friendly tie which was held at the giant Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city and he is among the trusted net bursters for the Burundi national team. Yanga Head Coach Cedric Kaze has since called for massive support from their passionate fans to throng the Arusha venue to rally behind them as they want to stretch unbeaten record to 16 games. His colleague for Dodoma Jiji Mbwana Makata said all players in his squad are fully prepared to face the challenge awaiting them this afternoon. They also head into the encounter with a positive mentality after winning their previous league battle against 1-0 against Gwambina FC at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma which was a morale boosting outcome prior to facing the incumbent league leaders. From 14 games, Dodoma Jiji have garnered 19 points courtesy of five wins, four draws and five losses. They have scored 10 goals and conceded 10 goals in the process.