CONTRACTORS in the country have been urged to verify contracts carefully before signing them to avoid loss during the implementation of projects. Contractors Registration Board (CRB), Chairperson, Eng Consolatha Ngimbwa said many contractors enter into construction contracts without doing due diligence due to corruption in some public procurement tendering. “Some of you are not faithfully” said Eng Ngimbwa, “that’s why the government has lost trust in some of you and opt to use force account [mechanism] in some of its construction projects, you must change and build good trust to the government to trust you,” she said. The engineer said when opening the three days capacity building training for local contractors in the southern zone that the competition was high in the construction sector compared to the past five years. She urged them to avoid corruption practices in implementation of construction projects to deliver high works while building trust to clients including the government. CRB Deputy Registrar Research and Development, Eng David Jere said the training will help local contractors to know the right price of the projects when they submit tender documents which are a long time challenge. “Contractors sometimes put unrealistic tender prices which raise complaints from different clients. After this regular training we expect them to change and quote appropriate prices,” said Eng Jere. Some participants from Southern Zone, Edigar Mtitu and Charles Mhagama said the training was relevant to them because they expect to improve in their tender documents and implementation of construction projects. Mr Mhagama said it was true that when they get construction tenders many local contractors sign contracts without scrutinizing them, something which causes many problems in the implementation of the projects. “We have been reminded on how to scrutinize contracts before signing them and the importance of having consultants who will read the contracts between the lines and advise us accordingly,” he said