THE High Court, Musoma Registry, has restored the criminal trial of eight of suspected arsonists and nullified their acquittal of the charge they were facing for allegedly setting fire three houses of their village mate, accusing him a thief. Judge Zephrine Galeba ruled against Samwel Kiberi, Christopher Kirundu, Emmanuel Ongoro, Sabato Ooko, Juma Patrick, Asubuhi Ooko, Ojuang Thomas and JumaKimira, the respondents, after allowing appeal lodged by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to oppose the trial district decision. “The ruling delivered by Tarime District Court on December 18, 2019 in criminal case no. 13 of 2019 is hereby quashed. The dismissed charge against the respondents is hereby restored against them and their acquittal is nullified,” he ruled. In the highly contested decision, the presiding magistrate had ruled that the respondents had no case to answer for the prosecution’s failure to establish a prima facie case requiring them to give their defence against the charge they were facing. The judge ruled, however, that based on the evidence tendered by three prosecution witnesses, the prosecution established a prima facie case against all the eight respondents. He ordered the original record to be transmitted to the district court for continuation of trial from where the accused persons would be availed with the usual rights under section 231 of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA) then proceed to finalisation of the trial. During hearing of the appeal, the DPP had contended that the trial magistrate had erred by holding that the evidence of the prosecution was contradictory and in holding that no witness from the prosecution saw any respondent setting fire on the houses. The born of contention the judge had to determine was whether the trial magistrate erred when she held that the prosecution evidence did not establish a case to answer against the respondents, following the testimony of witnesses Flora Adoyo, Godfrey Aludoloria and Salome Odoyo. According to court records, Flora is said to have testified that she heard alarm from a nearby maize field where she was working and when she got home, she saw Samwel Kiberi, the first respondent, setting fire on the first house and the other respondents spread the fire across to the other houses. On his part, Godfrey is on record as testifying that the accused persons came to the houses and burnt one house and the rest used grasses to spread the fire to other houses on allegation that the husband of FLORA ADOYO was a thief. This witness saw the respondents burning the houses. The court records of the appeal also show that Salome testified that that she saw the first respondent lighting the match and burning the first house and the other respondents spread the fire to other houses. “I must hold at once that the complaints of the appellant have merit. They have merit because all the three witnesses told the same story as to how the houses were burnt. They also saw the respondents burning the houses,” the judge held in the judgment delivered recently. On January 4, 2019, Ms Flora Adoyo’s three houses all built in one compound at Mang’ore village within Rorya District in Mara Region, were gutted down by fire. According to the prosecution, the respondents are the culprits who set the houses ablaze. However, at the closure of the prosecution case, the district court of Tarime made a finding of fact that the prosecution did not establish a prima facie case sufficient to order the respondents to defend the charge of arson. Following that finding, the court dismissed the charge and acquitted all the eight respondents. The DPP was aggrieved by those orders and decided to appeal to the High Court.