MINERAL Minister Dotto Biteko yesterday issued a stern warning to miners attempting to smuggle Tanzanite out of the 24.5kilometer perimeter wall surrounding Mirerani Mines. The Minister was categorical that anyone arrested with the precious gems will be stripped off his mining licence and slapped with a 50m/- fine. “We’ll no longer take anything to chance this time around…anyone arrested with the gems will face the music,” cautioned the Minister, while addressing Tanzanite Miners and dealers at Mirerani hills. Equally, the Minister directed pit managers and supervisors to conduct thorough inspection on the miners, whenever they leave the mine premises. “We need to have a facility which will house scanners and other equipment to deter Tanzanite smuggling,” he said. The minister’s directive comes a month after the government reinforced security on Tanzanite minerals following a successful installation of 24- hour surveillance CCTV cameras on the perimeter wall. The 1.2bn/- project is set to curb Tanzanite smuggling and deter other crimes, which are related in the mines, even with the perimeter wall being put in place. The installation included mounting of 25 station metal boxes on the perimeter wall and other buildings in the mines, Unshielded Twisted Pair (UTP) cables, a server and a control room to run the devices. On his part, Minerals Deputy Minister Professor Shukran Manya assured the miners that the government will still continue resolving their challenges amicably. “The government has taken on board some of your grievances and they will be resolved sooner than later,” he said. Some of the challenges according to Professor Manya include poor road network in the mines, which he said will be taken up by Tanzania Rural and Urban Road Agency (TARURA). At least seven Tanzanite smuggling related cases have been reported in the mines in the past three months. In his remarks, Manyara Regional Miners Association (MAREMA) Chairperson Justin Nyari appealed to the government to resolve the contentious issues pertaining procurement of mineral explosives. “This is something worth reviewing as it leaves out much to be desired,” he explained.