The Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, Prof Elisante Ole Gabriel, has emphasised the role of marketing in boosting Tanzania’s economy. Prof Gabriel, who is also a marketing professional, said: "We need to have marketers who can bring impact on businesses...so marketers should be able to turn business challenges into opportunities." The PS said this at the weekend during the launch of the Tanzania Marketing Science Association (TMSA) at Mzumbe University Dar es Salaam Campus College. TMSA is driven by an informed community of experts from both the industry and academia. It was formed to provide solutions and services such as professional training programmes ranging from certified to professional marketing. The success of any business driven economy is determined by creativity which is backed up with good marketing structures. Companies spend an average of 30-50 per cent of annual turnover on marketing activities. Besides the government, the second human activity which involves significant spending is marketing. Programme Coordinator, Dr Emmanuel Chao, noted that without well-trained marketers, business investments would end in serious losses and sustainability would be at stake. There is a significant shift in marketing education today. This shift is prompted by technological changes. "This urgent need for well-structured and sustainable marketing has facilitated us to form this association," Dr Chao said. The association aims at bringing together marketing scholars and practitioners. He added that the association aimed at grooming marketing experts and advocating professional marketing. The launch of the marketing science association was alongside young CEOs’ graduation programme. "Young CEOs need to be well-groomed in marketing and this is the essence of joining the two," he stated. The Young CEOs Mentorship Programme which took place from September this year was facilitated jointly by Clouds Media Group, CEOs and Scholars (C&S) Forum and Mzumbe University.