ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has graced the ‘Ethics and Human Rights' Day celebration with a promise to take tough, effective and consistent action to tackle corruption and abuse of public offices. He said any civil servants including leaders in their respective positions, implicated in graft, theft and misuse of public office, will immediately be suspended and probed before serious action is taken against the culprits. “We need to take serious steps to address abuse of public offices for the country to move forward,” Dr Mwinyi said in his speech during the celebration. He said the ‘Ethics and Human Rights Day' celebrations were marked at the time when he was waging a serious war against corruption practices. Since coming to power last month, the 8th phase government has unearthed huge losses in public offices due to deceitful use of funds meant for various projects. Dr Mwinyi said he wanted to see corruption, laziness and violation of human rights come to an end, while demanding effective good governance practices. “We should not in any way feel shy in taking actions against dishonest and corrupt officials… we need to reform Zanzibar and achieve our development plans. Fortunately, war against misconduct is backed by both our constitutions- Zanzibar of 1984 and Union of 1977,” he emphasized. “If you are a suspect, I will remove you immediately,” he said, as he directed the Zanzibar Anti-Corruption and Economic Crime Authority (ZAECA), to walk the talk. “Do not just talk about recovering money from con men or corrupt officers but tell the public about the status of those implicated,” he said. The president also directed other institutions: Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Department of Good Governance and the Ethics Commission to work together seriously to end all the frequently mentioned social menace: corruption, illegal drugs trafficking and use, as well as abuse of children. Dr Mwinyi said that a house being built by two brothers cannot stand firm, if one of them is destroying it. “Therefore, let us collaborate to identify and uproot all people destroying Zanzibar by indulging in corrupt practices and child abuse,” he said. He said that any spoiler should not be allowed to remain in public office and that Zanzibar through the United Republic of Tanzania has also ratified several laws and international conventions aimed to end corruption and safeguard children. Dr Mwinyi has for the last 60 days in power, in addition to the campaign days, been talking about transforming Zanzibar and cleaning the archipelago from corruption, ‘business as usual' way of working and try to end abuse of children, promote good governance and respect of human rights. The Ethics and Human Rights are observed globally annually on October 16th and December 9th respectively. However, due to the busy schedule and December being the Independence Day for Tanganyika, authorities in Zanzibar agreed to shift the celebrations to a different date. Mr Assa Ahmad Rashid- Chairperson of the Ethics Committee informed the gatherings that despite some challenges, they have been moving on well in the past four years and that the recorded achievement includes increasing public awareness about bad practices in public offices. The Minister for Constitution, Legal Affairs, Public Service and Good Governance Mr Haroun Alio Suleiman said: "We have adopted your speed in operation and we hope to win the war against corruption and abuse of children." The celebrations were attended, among others by the First Vice-President Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, Second Vice-President Hemed Suleiman Abdalla, Speaker of House of Representatives Mr Zubeir Ali Maulid, and Ministers.