TANZANIA has received a grant of 84bn/- from the European Union (EU) through the French Development Agency (AFD) to finance the construction of an electric transmission line between Tanzania and Zambia. Part of the money, amounting to 72bn/-, was signed yesterday in Dar es Salaam, between the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr Doto James, France Ambassador to Tanzania, Frederic Clavier and Resident Director of the AFD, Ms Stephanie Mouen Essombe. Speaking during the event, Permanent Secretary, Mr James said 72bn/- would be spent on building a power station in Tunduma and the construction of a transmission line for 330KV with a length of 4 kilometres from Tunduma to the border with Zambia. “This project also involves the construction of new transmission line at rural places that are off the national grid,” he said, elaborating that this transmission line would boost the capacity of the existing transmission lines of Iringa – Kisada – Mbeya – Tunduma – Sumbawanga,” Mr James stated. The move is expected to increase availability of reliable electricity and boost production in respective rural areas, particularly in the Southwest of the country where there is high level of poverty. Mr James argued that the grant proves that the EU and France are good friends of Tanzania, contrary to assertions by some politicians who were claiming that Tanzania’s relations with development partners were slumping. “Through good relations we are aware that the investment from the AFD to Tanzania has reached about 1.26tri/- ,” he noted. Ms Essombe commented that a few months ago the AFD also signed a soft loan agreement worth 280bn/- (100m Euro) for the construction of Tanzania-Zambia electric transmission line. She said the project was the final part of implementing a corridor project that links Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia which is meant to reduce costs on electricity and boost the economy of those countries. She revealed that AFD is looking forward to disburse another amount of 364bn/- (130m Euro) for implementing another major energy project (solar PV Power) in Shinyanga Region that will lead to the generation of 50MW. She said in the last 10 years, the AFD Board of Directors endorsed a total of 1.2tri/- (430m Euro) for the energy sector. He added that the agency is committed to continue investing in various socio-economic issues. Commenting on the matter, Acting EU Ambassador to Tanzania, Emilio Rossetti, said the EU looks forward to dishing out 4m euros to support capacity building among TANESCO workers. He said the EU recognizes the fifth government efforts that focus on bringing about economic development for wananchi.