THE completion of the construction of a seaweed processing plant at Chamanangwe on Pemba Island will add value to seaweed and boost production. This was said by Minister for Agriculture, Irrigation, Natural resources and Livestock Soud Nahoda Hassan at the opening of nine-day farmers’ training at Makonyo Factory Hall in Chakechake, Pemba. Gracing the opening of training on behalf of the Second Vice-President Hemed Suleiman Abdalla who was supposed to be the guest of honour, the minister said the factory, constructed by the government in collaboration with two Indonesian firms, Ocean Fresh and Kapa Carageenan Nusantara, was of great importance to farmers. “We hope completion of the seaweed plant,” the minister said, “will result in high production and good price for farmers and when it starts operating, more people are likely to engage in seaweed cultivation due to a reliable market.” “The government is committed to supporting its farmers. Seaweed farmers’ prolonged grievances are soon coming to an end. There are so many people engaged in the cultivation of seaweed, the majority being women,” the minister said, adding that it was among implementation of the blue economy policy. He said the government had decided to establish the factory and ensure good prices because it loved its people and through value addition, farmers would definitely improve their welfare as demand for the factory was about 30,000 tonnes, while the current production was about 16,000 tonnes annually. According to the Ministry of Trade and Industries’ Permanent Secretary Juma Reli, seaweed farming employs about 25,000 people – 90 per cent of who are women and training will improve the capacity of farmers to produce quality products. Dr Donald Mmari from Research on Poverty Alleviation (Repoa) supports the government’s initiative to add values to seaweed because it can change people’s lives as the country battles to eradicate poverty. Zanzibar seaweed is exported to China, Korea, Vietnam, Denmark, Spain and France among other countries. “Farmers have to learn how to cope with the impact of climate change on seaweed farming and how they can improve its quality,” Mr Mmar said as farmers thanked both the government and Repoa for organising the training.