THE government has ordered the National Construction Council (NCC) to address corruption loopholes when conducting arbitration in contract disputes as they enhance the sector. The NCC, which is under the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications is among other duties responsible for settling arbitration cases arising from the country’s construction sector. Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Elius Mwakalinga (in charge of the works sector) yesterday, while speaking to the NCC Council of workers in their annual general meeting in Dar es Salaam directed the Council to have its own specialised personnel to deal with arbitration and address corruption. “Arbitration is the area attracting corruption, and if you are not careful it will tarnish your image, you have to train some of your staff to become specialists in this area to avoid sourcing people from outside…you should have integrity when conducting arbitration,” said the PS. Mr Mwakalinga said the workers’ council is an important organ that links managements and employees of the institutions for better performance. However, he counselled the workers council to discuss strategic matters for development of the NCC and the nation at large Elaborating, Mr Mwakalinga further told the NCC to forge a strong partnership with other institutions in the construction sector, citing some as the Contractors Registration Board (CRB) and the Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS). “What I see is that you (NCC) operate alone… why you don’t you work closely with other institutions in the construction sector?” he queried. Commenting, Chief Executive Officer of the NCC, Dr Matiko Mturi, said the workers’ council was a key organ for the development of the institution, particularly when it comes to issues of discipline and workers’ welfare. He said since the workers’ council was established two years ago has so far seen 16 resolutions being implemented. Dr Mturi noted that during the meeting, they discussed eight agenda items for implementation during this financial year. Speaking over arbitration, he said the NCC has received a total of 61 cases during this financial year, and five of them have already been resolved. With only 30 employees against the required 84, he told the Permanent Secretary that they still face some challenges, citing one as shortage of human resources that is backpedalling their duties.