THE Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication Dr.Jim Yonazi has commended Huawei’s efforts in improving the quality of Information Ccommunication and Technology (ICT) education, because it has vast employment vacancies especially to University students with skils in the realm. Dr Yonazi, former Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Managing Editor made the remark while presiding over the Opening Ceremony of the fifth season of the “Seeds for the Future” programme that was conducted online on Monday. In Tanzania, the program was launched in 2016 under the support of the Prime Minister’s office and Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and initially involved four Universities when it was launched and has now extended to covers seven more namely the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), University of Dodoma (UDOM),Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), Mbeya University of Science and Technology (MUST), Ruaha University College (RUCO), St. Augustine University of Tanzania (SAUT) and Dar es Salaam University College of Education. “I have been informed that in order to contribute to the development of the ICT talent in Tanzania and align the visions and strategic plans of the country, Huawei has significantly increased its activities and partnerships with the Universities and Colleges in this country. These are commendable efforts for the enhancement of youth development in Tanzania,” he said, while delivering his speech on behalf of Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Dr. Zainab Chaula. Elaborating, he called upon the students to utilize the knowledge they acquire from the program to also teach others and in turn benefit a larger population especially those who were not to lucky to continue with their studies to such heights. “I congratulate all the students who have taken part in Seeds for the Future program this year. I advise them to use this opportunity appropriately to develop and further advance their knowledge and gain practical experiences in ICT. I also encourage them to share the experience gained with their colleagues in order to advance and sharpen the knowledge they have acquired,” he added. On his side, the Managing Director of Huawei Tanzania, Frank Zhou highlighted Huawei’s plans of enabling Tanzania to cope with technology demands that come with the dynamics in the digital space. “We understand that digital development requires an important, economy-wide program to equip Tanzania for the future. In this new era, ICT skills will be necessary for society, for organizations, and even more important for young people. That is why we have deeply invested in several initiatives especially in local talent development,”he pointed out. This year, in order to reach more talents in Tanzania, the Seeds for the Future program will be run through online platform to also accommodate a big number of students from different regions. On the strength it will have a forum also for students with special needs to also participate in comparison to the previous years, given the pace Huawei has set to increase the number of training opportunities enrolling students from 10 to 47 now. “I am very proud to announce some of them are females, who also play an important role in the ICT industry. And I want to encourage more young students attending the course to look at and pursue careers in the telecom space,” he said. From the Ministry of Education, Science and Information, the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary Dr Leonard, persepective, the programe deserves praise for also presenting many Tanzanian students with job opportunities. “The programme stabilizes the partnership between the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and Huawei Tanzania in nurturing a healthy and sustainable ecosystem of human resources in ICT. The program initiatives are acting as a bridge that fills the gap between theoretical learning and practical requirements in the job market,”he said. On his part, Airtel CTO, Mr. Prosper Mafole encouraged the students to utilize the learning opportunities provided by the Huawei, saying they are welcomed if they need any support. ‘‘We as telecom operators, we are here to support you, feel free to approach us when you need anything,’’ he said. Commenting, Mr. Yuan Lin, Economic and Commercial Counsellor of the Chinese Embassy in Tanzania commended Huawei for having set a good example in the development of ICT talents in Tanzania by building the capacity of young undergraduates who will be the driving force behind Tanzania’s ICT transformation in the near future. “The Chinese Embassy in Tanzania will encourage other Chinese companies to undertake such initiatives to help train professional technicians, which stand at the center of realizing Tanzania’s goals of industrialization and becoming a middle-income country.” He added. The “Seeds for the Future” opening ceremony was graced by high profile government officials including the Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, and the Economic and Commercial Counselor of Chinese Embassy in Tanzania Mr. Yuan Lin.