WHEN the Director in the Department of People with Disability under the Second Vice President’s office, Ms Abeida Rashid convened a press conference to talk about their Day tomorrow, she praised the government on its ongoing efforts in ensuring people with disability live ‘a normal life in Zanzibar.’ Even during the election campaign, the incumbent President Dr Hussein Ali Hassan Mwinyi was quoted several times promising to do the best for the vulnerable groups including people with disabilities, the elders, children and women. “Already we saw some developments in the past regime at least improving laws or writing new ones and policies that safeguard people with disabilities. Cementing on this achievements, our new president has promised not to overlook the challenges facing us,” said Ms Rashid, who is physically impaired. She said that as the world observes the ‘International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPD)’ it was another opportunity to share what people with disabilities here in Zanzibar need to serve as guidelines for laws and policies enforcers. The IDPD is annually observed on 3rd December to promote the full and equal participation of persons with disabilities and to take action for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all aspects of society and development. The theme this year (2020) is “Building Back better: toward a disability-inclusive, accessible and sustainable post Covid-19 World,” but on local content perspective, Ms Rashid said an addition to the theme is ‘Blue economy- disability inclusiveness.’ She says that the global theme of ‘inclusive’ was timely because the new Zanzibar government has prioritized ‘Blue economy’ plan and none (including people with disabilities) should be left behind because each group has something to contribute. Other areas of focus for people with disabilities are education (include self-defence or prevention from sexual abusers), ensuring that all public places/buildings are accessible to all people with different disabilities, ease communications (include sign language) in public places (hospitals, courts, sports, parliament and the media), respect and allow social rights (marriage, games) and stop stigmatization in families and work place. Ms Abeida Rashid says it was fortunate that most of the listed challenges plus road safety or traffic have been put into laws or policies, but lack of implementation and lack of enforcement remain a problem. There have been concerns over ramps fixing in buildings as most of it are either below standard or simply a nuisance to people with disability. While people with disabilities push for the implementation of the laws and policies along with ratification of the international convention, the head of Inclusive and Study skills in the Zanzibar Ministry of Education & Vocational Training, Ms Fatma Mbaraka Hashim is encouraging students with disabilities to learn different techniques to escape abuse and violation of their rights. Opening ‘a sign language class’ recently for the deaf students at Mwanakwerekwe A School, Ms Hashim put emphasis that educating children sign language and other techniques in communication is important to help them understand what abuse is and how to protect themselves. “It is sad that despite global and national campaigns against child protection, abuse escalates, and children with disabilities also fall victims. Let us help them know how they can protect themselves and self-defence at least by making signs,” he said. The officer urged the parents, teachers, students, and members of the public to team-up against abuse of children, and that the government remains fully committed to see that everyone in the country including people with disability lives safe. A total of 67 deaf students (of STD IV, VI, F.II, and F.IV from Mwanakwerekwe A,F, H, schools, School of commerce, and Mfenesini schools, and 26 teachers were taught about sign language. Fresh call from people with disabilities at this year’s IDPD is also based on the “disability Monography Report of 2016,” released last year. The report says prevalence of persons with disability in Zanzibar is 7.3 per cent and that it is projected number of people with disability in the next five years will increase from 122, 027(2020) to 135, 208 (2024). According to the report mentions barriers to full social and economic inclusion of persons with disabilities include inaccessible physical environments and transportation, the unavailability of assistive devices and technologies, non-adapted means of communication, gaps in service delivery, and discriminatory prejudice and stigma in society. It says despite the challenges, Zanzibar has been performing well to make the country the best place for people with disabilities, the efforts strengthened by the launch of the National strategic working plan (2020-2024) for the people with disabilities. Analyzing the ‘Zanzibar National Council of People with Disabilities (ZNCPwDs)’ since it was established in 2006, Mr Sadi Waziri Shemiliwa, a researcher says there has been some noticeable achievements in implementing the rights of people with disabilities, but more support was still needed to achieve the goals. Through SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis; SLEPT (Social, Legal, Economic, Political and Technological) analysis; and stakeholders analysis, to evaluate the ZNCPwDs five-year strategic plan, Mr Shemiliwa says stakeholders have a role to play. He said Zanzibar has undergone admirable social and economic changes over the last decade including the ratification, under the united republic of Tanzania, of UN convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in December 2006 after the birth of Zanzibar National Council of People with Disabilities (ZNCPwDs). “Public and stakeholders’ considerable support is still to see the plan is implemented for the development of People with disabilities,” said the researcher outlining some of the successes recorded in the last decade, and gaps required to be narrowed or filled to make Zanzibar better place for people with disabilities. Emphasis on awareness programmes, social behaviour change programmes, and information sharing, increased accessibility through improved friendly infrastructure to people with disabilities, increased rate of literacy among people with disabilities, and increased number of employed persons among people with disabilities, are some of the recorded successes. Other key success measures for the strategic plan include increased coverage of people with disabilities in social protection systems, improved response to violence and reduction in number of violent incidents against people with disabilities, improved sustainability in funding social and economic activities for people with disabilities and improved access to quality healthcare for persons with disabilities. The researcher says that the ‘government, Disabled People Organizations, Development’ strategic partnership is another key success under the ZNCPwDs mission “Uplifting the equal rights and privileges of persons with disabilities through high level of coordination, legal enforcement, technology transformation, and dedicated, committed and competent manpower.” “We need to achieve our strategic objectives to create enabling environment for sustainable and inclusive growth, address the challenges preventing people with disabilities from getting employment, and maintain sufficient funding to support activities of people with disabilities,” Shemiliwa said. He said implementing the council’s strategic plan will lead to several changes in the country including to improve service delivery to people with disabilities, create a conducive work environment for the DDA, and tackle other social factors such as literacy rate among disabled people, which was 64.6 per cent in 2012. “The number of illiterate persons with disability may be at 47,864 in 2024 as the council aims to improve the rate of literacy from 64.6 per cent to 85 per cent by the end of the planning period,” he said adding that only 49.9 per cent of people with disability are employed in Zanzibar. The expert argues further that if the plan is implemented, the projected number of people with disability not in employment will increase from 61,135(2020) to 67,739 (2024), and that under the strategic plan, the Council aims to create awareness among members of the society to ensure that all cases of violence are dealt with according to the existing legal and regulatory requirement. Stakeholders under the plan include: Disabled People Organizations, Government, Zanzibar House of Representative, Civil Societies, Private Sector, Faith Based Organizations, Development Partners, Academic Institutions, Community Influential Leaders, Judiciary, Media, and state security organs, each has big role in ensuring the strategic plan for the disabled is successful. At the validation meeting of strategic plan held last year with support from UNFPA, Deputy Permanent Secretary (PS)- Office of the Second Vice President (responsible for HIV, environment and people with disabilities) Mr Abdalla Hassan Mitawi said the government would be happy to see development of people with disability. The World Bank reminds that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development clearly states that disability cannot be a reason or criteria for lack of access to development programming and the realization of human rights. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) framework includes seven targets, which explicitly refer to persons with disabilities, and six further targets on persons in vulnerable situations, which include persons with disabilities. SDGs address essential development domains such as education, employment and decent work, social protection, resilience to and mitigation of disasters, sanitation, transport, and non-discrimination – all of which are important areas of work for the World Bank. The Bank also says that the New Urban Agenda specifically commits to promoting measures to facilitate equal access to public spaces, facilities, technology, systems, and services for persons with disabilities in urban and rural areas. According to the World Bank (WB) one billion people, or 15 per cent of the world’s population, experience some form of disability, and disability prevalence is higher for developing countries. It says that persons with disabilities are more likely to experience adverse socioeconomic outcomes than persons without disabilities, such as less education, poorer health outcomes, lower levels of employment, and higher poverty rates. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) promotes the full integration of persons with disabilities in societies. CRPD specifically references the importance of international development in addressing the rights of persons with disabilities, and that about 177 countries including Tanzania have ratified the CRPD, which carries the force of binding law.