THE National Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) has been advised to dwell in conducting useful research that brings positive results in improving people’s health. The advice was issued here yesterday by Kongwa District Commissioner, (DC), Dr Seleman Serera, during the commemoration of 40 years’ anniversary of the institute, an event that was held at Dodoma’s Nyerere Square grounds. “The research that you conduct will have an impact if they target on the best ways to curb diseases that have been disturbing our people,’’ noted Dr Serera. Dr Serera who represented Dodoma Regional Commissioner (RC), Dr Binilith Mahenge, said medical research is very important in helping people in various parts of the country, including Dodoma Region, which has witnessed a large influx of people since the government relocated its capital from Dar es Salaam. The DC further paid tribute to NIMR for keeping alive a dream by the father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere in the fight against diseases. Mwalimu Nyerere fought against diseases, ignorance and poverty. “President John Magufuli has always been insisting on people to concentrate on work, but we can always do that when our people have good health conditions, so we need more research on this part,’’ he insisted. Speaking at the occasion, Dr Mary Mayige who represented NIMR Director General, Prof Yunus Mgaya, said the institute started making research on human diseases in 1920, and that immediately after independence, various research centres were under the East African Community (EAC). She said that after the demise of EAC, NIMR was legally established in 1979 and that it started executing its duties officially in 1980. Ms Mayige said that the institute has eight centres, and that they were planning to launch more centres so as to bring services to people. “NIMR has several responsibilities, including awareness campaign on doing research in ensuring that we have a healthy community,’’ she noted. At the celebrations, participants had an ample time to have free health checkups as well as donating blood.