TANZANIAN envoys Simba have become a big talk in Zimbabwe ahead of their CAF Champions League match against FC Platinum on December 22nd in Zimbabwean capital, Harare. Players who served in Tanzanian Premier League teams have warned the FC Platinum to be serious when playing the Tanzanian giants. FC Platinum have produced a number of players who played in Tanzania, most notably are Thabani Kamusoko, Never Tigere, and Donald while Elisha Muroiwa and Simbarashe Nhivi served Singida United. Simbarashe has warned FC Platinum to step up their performance if they fancy chances of progressing past the CAF Champions League first round stage. FC Platinum face Tanzanian envoys Simba in the first round after eliminating Costa Do Sol of Mozambique after a 4-1 aggregate win in the preliminary round. Nhivi, who had a stint with Singida United in 2017, believes the Tanzanian club will present a sterner challenge for the platinum miners. “Simba is the biggest team in Tanzania if not Yanga (Young Africans) and they are a very competitive side with foreigners almost in every position who can score if given an opportunity,” Nhivi said. Simba have the services of Zambian midfield dynamo, Clatous Chama, scorer of the goal that sent them through to the first round at the expense of Plateau United of Nigeria. They won 1-0 on aggregate, with that solitary goal scored away in Nigeria. “You cannot underestimate the team at all. They have quality and can be a threat if not handled well. You need to be professional in your approach when playing such teams.” FC Platinum, who are under the tutelage of former Chippa United coach in South Africa, Norman Mapeza, will not be playing a Tanzania team for the first time after locking horns with Young Africans in a CAF Confederation Cup first round tie in 2015. Yanga emerged victorious 5-2 on aggregate. “Simba have a strong technical department as well and have been regulars in the Champions League now. FC Platinum are playing a good side, but they (FC Platinum) also have quality on their side. They can beat any team if they believe in themselves and have more desire to win this game.” Mapeza’s charges host the first leg of the first-round tie at the National Sports Stadium on December 22, before travelling to Dar es Salam for the reverse fixture a fortnight later. “Mapeza, who has returned to Platinum has energised the team and he is a very qualified and professional who is not new to these kinds of games. The Champions league is a tough competition because it’s played by respective league champions. Whoever wants it more on the day and who is better prepared mentally physically and tactically will win,” Nhivi added. Tanzanian Elias Maguri is one of the key strikers to watch alongside a Cameroonian centre forward Albert Eonde. Other international players are Guyve Mawete; all will be under the captaincy of goalkeeper