ACADEMY girls have continued their prowess in the TCA Women Regional Cup 2020 after they whipped their Kilumeru counterparts by 53 runs at Usagara in Morogoro. That is their second consecutive victory after they also thumped Twiga Girls by 56 runs a day before their yesterday’s match against Kilumeru. A former national women team captain, Monica Pascal emerged woman of the match for her brilliant batting skills after she scored a half century not out from 52 balls she faced. She was seconded by Nasra Hamza who had 34 from balls and Tatu Bakari supplemented 11 others not out. Academy girls won the toss and elected to bat first to score 124 runs and dropped only two wickets in the 20 allotted overs match. Kilumeru had nothing to offer in their inning as they dropped all of their wickets in all 20 overs to score 71 runs. Most of their runs came from Getrude Mushi who had 21 from 37 balls she committed as Linda Justine hit 12 from 30 balls. Meanwhile, Tembo Warriors are leading the table of the TCA Super League, after bagging up six points from three outings. They are followed up by Serengeti Giants with four points as Kilimanjaro Aces have just two points from three matches while Ngorongoro Titans are tail enders without a point. The 50-over league, which is played on every weekend and holidays has been organized by the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA), featuring only four men’s teams that comprise of national team players and those who excel in their respective clubs. The idea the league is to enable the local players be experienced enough in playing long matches as well as being able to score highest number of runs. This is due to the fact that competent teams in the international cricket like India, South Africa and Namibia are good enough to score highest number of runs in a single 50 overs match. The national team coach, Kenyan Steve Tikolo said that he had suggested for the staging of 50 overs matches to enable the local players match the pace of well drilled countries so that they can be beatable in the international ICC events. Tanzania is expected to compete in various ICCAfrica region tournaments in both men and women disciplines next year. The World’s governing cricket body, ICC had this year cancelled all major tournaments because of Coronavirus pandemic that hit the world to restrict travel measures in a move to curb the situation.