Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani has warned private companies in Biharamulo District, Kagera region against imposing high power charges to customers, as the malpractice is tantamount to robing the poor. According to Dr Kalemani, the government entered an agreement with private solar power suppliers to charge not more than 100/- per unit to customers, but cases of imposing high charges were being reported. He issued the warning during his tour of the district over the weekend to establish the number of villagers that were yet to receive power, during which he insisted that apart from violating the government’s directives, the private powers suppliers were also robbing Tanzanians. “Lack of electricity in some villages shouldn’t be a loophole for any private power provider to impose high power tariffs against indicative prices. I have heard that some companies in Nyantakara and Mavota villages are engaged in such illegal business. The situation is unacceptable because it hurts Tanzanians, let this malpractice stop immediately,” said the Minister. He directed villagers who get the services at high costs to report to either local government authorities or to the District Commissioner for legal procedures against the defiant. The Minister said further that Bihalamuro has 25 out of the available 2988 villages country-wide which are not connected to the electricity services yet, assuring them that they will be covered by February next year “The connection charge is only 27,000/-, therefore note that it is strictly prohibited for a citizen to pay more than that amount. Electricity poles are also not sold. In case one is directed to pay for the poles, just inform us,” he said. A Nyantakara villager, Mr Mwita Elisha was among the citizens who paid more than 100/- per unit for three years consecutively since one of the companies started its operations in the area. He revealed that people used to pay 500/- per unit for domestic uses, with business people paying 1000/-. Still the available units served for only 12 hours, from 10:00am to 10:00pm. “What costs us a lot is the fact that the power goes off even if one hasn’t used it. Again, the available power is of low voltage, unable to run the machines, a situation that affects our businesses. The coming power service from Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited therefore, will really boost our economy, because many will be encouraged to engage in various development activities,” said the villager.