THE Court of Appeal has acquitted a resident of Mbarali District in Mbeya Region, Fadhili Puye, who was sentenced to death by hanging by the High Court for killing his presumed wife, Fatuma Ramadhani, on unspecified reasons. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Gerald Ndika and Mwanaisha Kwariko ruled in favour of Puye, the appellant, after allowing his appeal he had lodged to oppose the decision of the High Court for insufficient evidence. "We allow the appeal (.......), quash the conviction and set aside the sentence imposed on the appellant. We order that the appellant, Fadhili Puye, be released from prison forthwith, unless he is detained there for some other lawful cause," they ruled. The justices pointed out that the prosecution case was built upon weak evidence, thus, he agreed with the submissions presented by defence that the evidence on the trial record was insufficient to sustain a conviction against the appellant. They scrutinised the evidence tendered by the young sister of the deceased, who purportedly saw and identified the appellant, saying such strand of evidence was mostly unreliable, primarily because it was contradictory on the source of the light that supposedly aided her identification. The justices pointed out that apart from the contradiction whether or not the appellant flashed his torch in her face, any reasonable person would wonder why the appellant allegedly used torchlight in the hut if at all that hut was illuminated by a solar powered bulb as averred by the witness. They also said the evidence of such witness was unreliable as her tale that the appellant killed the deceased and later came back to her and bragged about the killing, appears inconsistent with human nature and normal course of things. Furthermore, the justices agreed with defence counsel's submission that such witness's unusual conduct in the morning following her sister's killing and her failure to report the killer to anybody also render her testimony doubtful. They also found it odd and inexplicable that such witness went about doing domestic chores as if nothing tragic had happened the previous night. "We do not find any plausible explanation why this witness had to pretend that nothing tragic had happened and then lied on the whereabouts of her sister," the justices said. Perhaps, they said, the witness might have initially been overcome by the alleged fear of revenge, but wonder why she did not disclose the tragic events after her sister's lifeless body was discovered at a later stage. "Thus, her delay in disclosing the tragic events should raise eyebrows. It dents the reliability of her claim that she saw and identified the appellant at the scene, in a bid to link him with her sister's violent killing," the justices said. Facts show that the appellant and the deceased cohabited from 2010 as husband and wife, but their union had not been formally solemnised as a marriage. The deceased's brother, Hamad Nuru, related that the couple had a mostly rocky and unstable relationship that ended up with the deceased leaving the appellant and relocating back to her ancestral home at Idilu in Mbuyuni village sometime in 2014. How the deceased met her death around midnight of May 9, 2015 was told by her younger sister, Jackline Daudi, who had earlier retired to bed along with the deceased in the same hut. Her tale was that she was awakened only to find that the appellant, who she knew well, had stormed into the hut, holding a torch and a machete. He demanded to see the deceased, his estranged wife, but she had apparently sneaked out of the hut. The bare-chested and visibly angry appellant, then, walked out and proceeded to a nearby hut where the deceased and a certain Amos Mwidete happened to be. Shortly thereafter, the witness heard the deceased and the said Amos Mwidete crying in agony as it seemed they were being attacked. She testified further that, a few moments later, the appellant came back to her hut, still armed with the machete, grabbed her hand and forced her to the scene of the crime "to see what he had done to the deceased." At an adjoining farm, such witness saw the severely mutilated body of the deceased lying on the ground a few metres from the hut in which she was attacked. A little while later, the appellant fled the scene, having threatened to kill her, by then aged 17 years, should she spill the beans. The witness went back to her room but could not sleep. In the morning, she woke up and did some domestic chores as if nothing had happened. She admitted to have not reported the killing to anybody, citing her fear that the appellant would make good on his threat.