AS a week remains before the maiden Dar -Moshi Bike Tour FLAGS , more riders continue to enlist for the three-day race as by late yesterday, the number reached 35. The 552.1 km distances cycling race is scheduled to start from Msasani in Dar es Salaam on December 18th to Moshi in Kilimanjaro on December 20th this year. The organizers are Twende Butiama Cycling club. One of the event’s organisers Gabriel Landa told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparation for the grand race is on a top gear. Landa said that they are delighted to have registered 35 cyclists who confirmed their participations until late yesterday. “We are grateful to see a good response from the participants, we have 35 confirmations so far, its good number for any event though we hope the number will increase,” he said. Still, the entry list has been dominated by men’s as until late yesterday, there was only one lady in the list. Landa named Ruth Wangui as the only lady who will challenge men in tour. Landa called more ladies to join the bandwagon for the health well-being and networking. Those who have recently submitted participation are Bonny Kaaya, Camilius Wambura, Dominic Andrea, Frank Mshobozi, Joel John, Mukiza Richard and Uwesu Mngoya. Others who were already confirmed their participation are Abdu Elmahry, Ammar Yunus, Ammon Mwaka, Amon Hendry, Khuzeima Khanbhai, Eden Mushi, Frank Marariki, Godbless Baluhya, Hafeez Thawer, Hesam Thawer, Hillary Edward, Hubert Pius and Hussein Dossajee. Others are Issa Murshid, Kwasi Frimpong, Martin Mchemwa, Murtaza Esmailjee, Omary Makumba, Omary Fire, Peter Nkwabi, Pritesh Dharsi, Rob Mwamamba, Robert Komba, Salehe Mvungi, Salum Kizoka and Shafran Merali. Landa said that the three-day race will have three service stops at Msata in Coast Region, in Same and Moshi in Kilimanjaro. There also slight changes in the tour service stations that have been made to make it more exciting. He, however said the first service stop will be at Mkata 200 km from Msasani in the day 1, and the next day’s stop is Same, about 236 km from where there will be a 105 km distance to the final destination in Moshi. He said that everything was going on well and that they are looking to see more participants before the exciting tour starts.