YOUNG Africans Head Coach Cedric Kaze said they knew that their game against Dodoma Jiji could be decided on set pieces that is why they worked hard on that area prior to the encounter. Unscratched Yanga continued to scale up the 18-team league ladder following a hard earned 3-1 victory versus Dodoma Jiji at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha over the weekend. Yanga who hosted the game roared back from one goal down to hit three goals, courtesy of Lamine Moro, substitute Saido Ntibazonkiza and Bakari Mwamnyeto, while the solitary goal for the visitors was made possible by Seif Karihe in the 3rd minute of the match. It seemed to be a tough game for Yanga especially after conceding an early goal as their opponents attacked and defended very well no wonder they excelled to contain them throughout the opening half. But, things turned upside down in the second half when Kaze called to bench Michael Saprong for Ntibazonkiza who scored the sublime set piece second goal for his team and orchestrated the third goal. “We knew that we were facing a team which prefers to defend a lot as they usually let many players behind the ball. Playing on this type of the pitch, we knew that the game would be judged via dead balls and we had to train hard on that area. “We watched a couple of their league matches they played to study them on how they play. Unfortunately, we accepted an early goal which made us to play under pressure since we registered more incomplete passes. “The good thing was that my players did not lose hope and we managed to get back into the game by scoring vital goals,” said Kaze. He again lauded his defender and skipper Moro saying he always lead his colleagues by example and that he has a sight of goals, that is why he is able to score for the team. Until now, Saprong and Moro are the top goal scorers for the Jangwani Street based club with four goals each but, overall in the contest, Simba striker John Bocco leads the scoring chart with 8 goals. On his part, Dodoma Jiji coach Mbwana Makata disclosed that his boys lost marking concentration in the second half thereby giving Yanga a chance to dominate the match. “The two set pieces they had near to our goal were wisely used by them hence sourcing the two winning goals. For now, we have to look up on our next fixtures and make sure that we get back swiftly into the game,” Makata said. It was the sixth loss to Dodoma Jiji this season which has seen them glued to the 11th slot with 19 points from 15 games and they need to uplift higher their game to stay put in the league next season.