THE High Court’s Main Registry has once again dismissed another attempt by human rights activists to challenge the constitutionality of some provisions under the Cyber Crime Act, which makes provisions criminalising offences related to computer systems and Information Communication Technologies. This time around, two petitioners, Raymond Paul Kanegene and Bob Chacha Wangwe, had challenged sections 16 and 39 (2) (a) and (b) of the Act in a consolidated petition for allegedly infringing the right to privacy and freedom of expression guaranteed under articles 16(1) and 18 of the Constitution. In their judgment issued recently, however, three judges of the court led by Principal Judge Eliezer Feleshi ruled that the petitioners did not show or prove by argument or evidence that the impugned provisions were unconstitutional. “We are therefore satisfied that the impugned provisions are constitutionally valid. We find and hold that the consolidated petition by the petitioners is not meritorious. It is, as a result, dismissed,” the panel also comprised Judges Leila Mgonya and Benhajj Masoud declared. Before reaching into such a decision, the judges had to determine some issues, including whether sections 16 and 39(2) (a) and (b) of the Cybercrimes Act are unconstitutional for violating Articles 16 (1), 17 and 18 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. In support of their position, the petitioners in their submissions in chief gave a detailed jurisprudential framework of the right to privacy and freedom of opinion and expression emerging from regional and international human right forums and other jurisdictions such as Kenya, Uganda and Zimbabwe. The judges recalled that the basis of attacking the provision of section 16 of the Cybercrimes Act was that the provision is unduly vague and overboard, it provides limited guidance as to what will be prohibited, and its inherent complexity in determining falsity in relation to information. They noted that such provision creates an offence relating to publishing information which is, with knowledge, not only false, deceptive, misleading, or inaccurate, but also with intent to defame, threaten, abuse, insult, or deceive or mislead the public or concealing commission of an offence. “We do not think the provision is vague and overboard and provides limited guidance as to what is prohibited in so far as publication of information is concerned. We also not (agree) with petitioners that the provision is inherently complex in so far as determination of falsity is concerned,” the judges said. On the contrary, according to them, the plain meaning of the provision of section 16 of the Act is clear that the provision has inherent safeguards against violation of the right to privacy and freedom of expression and the rights of an individual vis-a-vis the rights and interests of the community. They ruled, therefore, that the argument by the petitioners that the provision is unduly vague and overboard, provides limited guidance as to what would be prohibited under the provision lacks any support and runs counter to the plain meaning of the very provision. “We are satisfied that a foundation was not shown for us to invoke the Constitution to declare the impugned provision unconstitutional and nock the very provision down,” the judges said. In other words, they said, since the petitioners alleged that section 16 of the Act was unconstitutional, the onus to prove the unconstitutionality of the provision lies upon them. As regard to section 39(2) (a) and (b) of the Act, the judges pointed out that the provision empowers the Minister responsible for information and communication technology to prescribe procedures requiring service providers to divulge specified information and identification of service recipients. They noted that the petitioners were not challenging a procedure or a procedural regime prescribed by the Minister under the impugned provision and it was submitted that the Minister responsible had already promulgated the procedure envisaged under the impugned provision. The Attorney General, who was the respondent in the petition, informed the court that the Minister promulgated the Cybercrimes (General) Regulations, 2016, GN No. 224 of 2016 which stipulate on how information specified under the provision may be sought by the Minister from a service provider. It was thus argued that an aggrieved service provider has a right to challenge in court a specific decision of the Minister made under such regulations if believes the decision is contrary to the law and interferes with his rights as opposed to challenges the provision of section 39(2)(a)&(b) of the Cybercrimes Act. “We think section 39(2)(a) and (b) of the Cybercrimes Act as it is, it does not offend Articles 16 and 18 of the Constitution since it only provides for powers of Minister to promulgate a procedure under which information on alleged illegal activities or information may be divulged to authority,” they ruled. The justices pointed out that a constitutionality of a statutory provision is not in what could happen in its operation but in what it actually provides for and that the mere possibility of a statutory provision being abused in actual operation will not, as a matter of general rule make it invalid. This is the third time the court is throwing out similar constitutional petitions. There was an attempt by Advocate Jebra Kambole who challenged sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 19, 21, 22, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38 and 50 of the Act for violating articles 16, 17(1), 18, and 21(1) of the Constitution. In this case, the court declared all other provisions constitutional save for section 50 of the Act. There is also the case of Jamii Media Company, which had challenged in vain the constitutionality of sections 32 and 38 of the Cybercrimes Act.