FOOTBALL fans across the country are still digesting recent remarks made by President John Magufuli that time has come for the national team Taifa Star's selection not to be spoiled by Simba and Young Africans mania. It is not a hidden fact that these two teams are the backbone of the country's football as they enjoy a huge fan base, they are the oldest and most importantly, they splash a lot of cash to build competitive squads season after season. Indeed, for any team to excel in the modern world of football, massive investment both on and off the pitch is required to enable the respective side have access to all essential resources which are very important as far as the footwork is concerned. Both Simba and Yanga are thriving to make it big on the continent in terms of playing good football that is why they are in the process to transform how they run their affairs to go in line with the demand of the current world. The issue of club transformation is a lengthy one such that it cannot be completed overnight since it involves the amendments of some of the laws which govern the club and changing laws is a cumbersome procedure. But, one day, these two clubs will sing glory songs if they will thoroughly succeed in embracing modern ways of managing football and discarding old methods which are no longer entertained. This will, therefore, give other clubs in the country to learn from Simba and Yanga on how they managed to transform and in such doing, development of football will be reached. Now, going back to the main subject, what President Magufuli said has been positively received by many people in the country and he raised a good topic which needs people with good brains to sit and think about the way forward. The Simba-Yanga craze has been there for a long time and if you can get a chance to ask a promising youth star about his future plans, the name of either playing for Simba or Yanga can never skip from his mouth. This syndrome goes on until when they are matured enough to make their own decisions since playing for these two teams make one popular and easily known by the majority of people and it also becomes a good channel to play for Taifa Stars. Whenever the national team has been named, people are first interested in knowing how many players from Simba and Yanga have been called to join the squad and in some instances, a coach tries to balance by calling equal number of players from these two clubs. The coach is compelled to do this to please the supporters of Simba and Yanga thereby, the influence of these two teams in the flag carriers’ side cannot easily be defeated and it will take centuries for this fight to be won. It should be noted that there are good players outside Simba and Yanga, but they never get a chance to be named in the Taifa Stars team simply because they do not feature for the Kariakoo-based clubs, a thing which is detrimental to uplifting football standards in the country. A special scouting team needs to be formed to identify players who are performing high in the league before calling of the players to join the national team camp or else, the same formula of providing players for Simba or Yanga will continue being applied. One of the best ways to make sure that Taifa Stars squad is selected without highly looking at either Simba or Yanga teams is to protect the national Under-20 Ngorongoro Heroes players by ensuring that they are fully protected to join the senior side. Here, the government should step in and never let any of the Ngorongoro Heroes players to move out of the system as long as they are under a good tactician who nurtures them well and at the same time, give them regular friendly matches to keep them in good shape. They should be kept in a good camp and whenever a senior team has been named, at least five players from the Under-20 side should be allowed to go in camp with the big team for the sake of feeling the glimpse of being in a senior side. By doing this, surely, a time can come when the national team will never have to be influenced by either Simba or Yanga dominance as it is the case at the moment. A lot of kudos should, therefore, be directed to President Magufuli for raising such a key issue which has sparked off a national debate as it touches millions of Tanzanians who are sport fans and would like to see their teams doing well in both domestic and international competitions.