TELEPHONE technicians in Lake Zone have been urged to sharpen their skills so that they may cope with technological advances. Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Dr Zainab Chaula, said if the telephone technicians acquired the required skills, they would be in a good position to contribute to the country’s economic growth and people’s welfare. The PS said this on Thursday during a meeting with telephone technicians organised by Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) to discuss how they can contribute to national economic growth and fight against fraud among technicians. She said there were colleges that offered various courses on mobile phone repairing, including Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA), so they should see how they could benefit from such training. “Just take time to sharpen your skills so that you can increase efficiency in your work. Make sure all devices brought to you for repairing like telephones or computers are with receipts to avoid problems with law enforcers,” Dr Chaula said. According to her, a survey conducted by TCRA between January and September this year showed that more than 49 million of Tanzanians owned mobile phones, thus there is a need for qualified technicians to serve the population. TCRA Executive Director, Dr James Kilaba, advised the technicians to expand their services, including having onestop centre for mobile repairing services. He clarified that the onestop centre had several advantages, including reducing some costs on the importation of some devices. “You should work together and TCRA is ready to issue you a licence for operating as the one-stop centre,” said the TCRA’s boss. According to him, TCRA has already offered initial communications training to over 200 mobile technicians in Mwanza Region to empower technicians so that they may serve society better. Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Dr Jim Yonaz, commended the work done by the technicians, saying their operations helped a lot, including reducing unemployment and at the same time contributing to the country’s GDP. “But just go for training to sharpen your skills and scope of your services for your own benefits, your clients and the nation at large. I also commend TCRA for providing initial training to you,” stressed Dr Yonaz. Chairperson of Lake Zone Mobile Technicians Association Magua Manyanda expressed his gratitude to the government for support, stressing the importance of training to all mobile technicians. “We also urge the government to connect us with financial institutions so that we may access loans, boost capital and expand the services,” requested the chairperson.