EXCITEMENT is crucial for every being and Christmas is a time to embrace the beauty of excitement after twelve months of hard work. Over the weekend the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports brought the excitement to music fans across the coach region (in Dar es Salaam and Bagamoyo), delivering two year-ender classic performances to revelers through the so-called Serengeti Music and Bagamoyo International Festivals of Arts and Culture. It all began on the Boxing Day night at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam and stretched to Bagamoyo Arts and cultural Institute (Tasuba) to witness legendary and contemporary stars of Bongo Flava artistes. The festivals also featured arts exhibitions, dance drama and acrobatics in both stages. On Sunday night in the art festival, the stage was opened by Bagamoyo players; this group of talent was merged with teachers, students and staff from Tasuba who coloured the stage with songs, drums, dance and acrobatics. The song welcomed the Minister responsible for sports, Innocent Bashungwa, his deputy Abdallah Ulega and their Permanent Secretary Dr Hassan Abbasi, who took the stake to introduce themselves and later danced to tunes for the revelers to enjoy the moment. Then Bongo Flava artistes continued to lighten the stage; fans were in their toes during the performance. They sang together with the artists and waved right to left together with the artistes on stage. Sholo Mwamba, Meja Kunta, Nandy, Kala Jeremiah, Dogo Janja, Chege, Fid Q, Kalapina and Baby Madaha were among the few artists who stepped on the carousel and gave a phenomenal performance. It was astonishing to see fans in a big vibe when “Singeli” performers stood on the stage; it was surely an energetic performance. Other artists include Rich Lumambo and Duu Top band. As promised by Dr Abbasi, the Uhuru Stadium and Tasuba saw a classy international-level entertainment over the weekend that brought together traditional and new generation music with over 50 stars in one carousel. Dr Abbasi further noted the preparations went on well and it truly established a close relationship between music and tourism sectors.