THE Immigration Services Department of Tanzania in Kahama District has arrested 15 suspected illegal immigrants from Burundi. Ten of the immigrants, who are under 18 years of age, have been repatriated, while the remaining five were taken to court, District Immigration Services Department of Tanzania Coordinator Abdalah Mohamedi told reporters at the weekend. “We also took to court a villager of Nyihogo Ward, Ms Justina Makoye (47), for hiring a boy aged below 18 years, who is also a Burundian. The suspects were arrested last week during an impromptu inspection of various areas of Kahama, as part of efforts to fight against illegal immigration," said the coordinator. She added: "We arrested Ms Makoye after her employee (child) mentioned her and the way he came from Burundi for pancake selling. The child had neither travel nor residence permit. He was among the repatriated children because we do not take minors to court." According to him, Ms Makoye was charged in court and directed to either serve a three-month jail term or pay a 500,000/- penalty. The accused paid the money and was realised, with the court warning her to never accommodate illegal immigrants once again. Mr Mohamed mentioned other arrested illegal immigrants as Rutimana Ramadhani, Ndaishimiye Ernest, Nduwimana Daniel, Minan Adamu and Niyongabo Veniste. The five were found dealing with fruits, eggs and pancakes vending at Mwime sub-mining site. "They were all found guilty and faced the same punishment imposed on Ms Makoye. But they all failed to meet court requirements, hence, went to serve a three-month-jail term,” said the department coordinator. Regional Immigration Services Department of Tanzania Officer, Rashidi Magetta said fighting against illegal immigration was ongoing to ensure no one violated the country's immigration laws. To make inspection most successful, he added, the department had been allocating immigration officers to all wards of Shinyanga Region. He added that: "We also ask for collaboration from Shinyanga residents. Do not accommodate illegal immigrants. Just inform us whenever you suspect any of them."