EXIM Bank customers stand a chance of winning various prizes through the new product of ‘Chanja Kijanja na Exim Mastercard’ that is aimed at encouraging the public to shop and spend money Online using the financial institution’s cards of cashless payments. Unveiling the product in Dar es Salaam the bank’s Head of Retail Banking, Andrew Lyimo, said that through the campaign, the would-be winners will be awarded different prizes including cash awards for them to pay for their children’s school fees and other stationery. “The campaign is rewarding Exim Bank customers with Mastercard to celebrate best services offered for them in support of their lifestyles. In respect of our customers’ priorities, we are now giving special chances for our three winners (in company of their loved ones) to select fully covered trips of their choices like visiting Serengeti National Park or travelling to the beautiful Island of Zanzibar. “They (winners) may also opt for the reward of being paid school fees for one child and his or her also other school’s equipment will be covered,” he said. Mr Lyimo added that during the campaign, 10 weekly winners will each be awarded ‘shopping vouchers’ of 50,000/- while in every month, five winners will be awarded best smartphones. “As it was the case in the past, there are plenty of weekly, monthly and grand prizes to be awarded during the climax of the campaign,” “What our Exim Bank customers are required to do… is to do their purchase or payments through their MasterCard as many times as possible for them to increase their chances of emerging winners,’’ he said. The Retail Banker further said the campaign is open to all their customers with Exim Bank Mastercards, including those who have registered or will need to be registered to be enrolled into Mastercards’ system during the campaign. “At Exim bank, our cardholders have been enjoying utmost convenience across our networks when they do their purchase or payments in the shopping, or doing online purchase like Amazon, Ebay, Alibaba, Jumia, Kikuu, Duka Direct, payments for their travelling, hotel accommodation and other touristic activities,” he said. Stanley Kafu, who is the head of Marketing and Communication at Exim bank said that he has been pleased with the good response of customers to the ongoing campaign saying: “We are very much pleased with the outcome of the campaign and we are truly happy with Chanja Kijanja’s response from our customers.“ He further said that the improvements that have been made to make sure that the campaign runs smoothly and convenient reflects to the best services offered by the bank and that is their philosophy of delivering services.