IN theory, New Year’s resolutions should make your life less stressful, or at least give you a means to address things about your life you’d like to change. In reality, however, a lofty New Year’s resolution can often loom over you, forming a nagging reminder of your supposed failure to reinvent yourself just because another 365 days have passed. Makes sure your goals are actually achievable We’d all like to emerge like a phoenix from the ashes of 2020 with a bunch of new skills and hobbies, but life doesn’t work like that. If you’re trying to achieve something new, make sure your goal is actually manageable. Are you going to go from not running at all to running a 5K every day, or even every couple days? No, you’re not. So why leave yourself with a mountain to climb? Track your progress No change comes overnight, so tracking how you chip away at a goal will help you put things in perspective.Putting something into writing will help you internalize and respect the process. Patience is key, being that surveys show how 80 percent of New Year’s resolutions fail, likely owing to people’s fickle attitudes and fluctuating discipline. Plus, charting your progress—whether you’re cutting back on smoking, trying to lose weight, or read more—will help you understand how far you’ve come, even if your ultimate goal seems far down the line Take it step by step You’re not going to completely overhaul your imperfections in one-fell swoop. That’s why it’s probably a wise choice to tackle one issue at a time. Usually, people want to address the large, life-defining issues they may feel have held them back, such as curbing alcohol consumption. Adjusting behaviors that have been engrained for years is an onerous task, and taking things incrementally is the way to go. Reward yourself New Year’s resolutions get abandoned so quickly because they’re usually hard to carry out. That’s why you should pause and take stock of some of the bigger leaps you take towards achieving your goal. If you’re trying to eat healthier, don’t celebrate with a piece of cake, but definitely do something to acknowledge the progress you’ve made. Understand that setbacks happen Nobody makes a longterm commitment to changing their behavior without hiccups and bumps in the road. You have to keep in mind that whatever you’re trying to change will likely experience some difficulties. If anything derails you, stay the course, and don’t be shy about seeking help from those close to you. Even if you manage to hit half of a New Year’s resolution, you’ll still be doing better than if you proclaimed a grandiose goal at the start of the year and abandoned it after your first setback.