Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga will suffer as Young Africans face energetic Tanzania Prisons in a Premier League fixture today. The visitors Yanga who are undefeated this season will be targeting to extend their unscratched run to 18 games, against one of the hard to beat sides in the contest. It has been a good start of the campaign by Yanga despite making a lot of changes to their team and the outcome they are stamping is contrary to what many people anticipated. The game will be the opening encounter for the second round of the season for both teams which will also consist of 17 fixtures before the season finally reaches its closing line. With the morale boost among Yanga players, on paper, they look fit to grab all three points but the good judge will be the final whistle to be blown at the end of 90 minutes of the sweaty footwork action. Hosts Tanzania Prisons go into the game with heads down after losing their past league match 2-0 to Biashara United at Karume Stadium in Mara hence; they have a chance to shrug off the negative results to win this afternoon. Prior to that, they were held to a 1-1 draw by Gwambina FC at Gwambina Stadium in Misungwi, Mwanza and before that, they were again contained to a goalless draw by Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. This means from possible nine points, Tanzania Prisons have garnered two points only hence they have not performed well in their recent matches but that is not a guarantee for them to let Yanga have an easy ride. It should be remembered that the two teams met in the first match of the first round of the campaign at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam which elapsed 1-1 whereby Yanga had to equalise late via Ugandan import striker Michael Sarpong. Prisons also had a good memory at their temporary league hosting venue Nelson Mandela Stadium as they managed to disappoint defending champions Simba after claiming a 1-0 triumph which was a good victory for them. On the other hand, Yanga, in their past three games, have collected all nine points and scored 11 goals in the process to strengthen their title hunt of the season. They first hammered Mwadui 5-0, Dodoma Jiji 3-1 and Ihefu FC 3-0 to complete a package of 17 games without tasting the bitter pill of the marathon