COUNCILLORS in Tarime District Council in Mara Region have unanimously rejected an initial project implementation report presented by District Executive Director (DED) Apoo Tindwa, asking for enough time to go through the report. They gave their stand during the first meeting of the council where the councillors took an oath at JK Nyerere Secondary School Hall where it was agreed that the councillors should be given seven more days starting Wednesday to read and confirm the report. After the oath, the director urged councillors to receive a report on the implementation of council activities carried out over the past six months after the council was dissolved. Tarime Rural MP MwitaWaitara said the councillors should be given accurate information on various projects, whose implementation was overseen by experts after the council was dissolved to pave the way for the general election. He said councillors as representatives of the people had the right to be given adequate time to review the implementation of public projects to ensure the national interest and operating procedures of the council were observed. “We will ensure that we put the interests of the people first throughout the implementation of development projects by properly managing local revenue, including service levy provided by North Mara Mine in this council to improve the economy,” he said. He said the government was implementing a big water project costing more than 1.2bn/-. In another development, councillors expressed dissatisfaction with the director’s statement that the council lacked funds to pay allowances for legitimate council meetings while accounting for revenue collection that exceeded targets annually. Kemambo Councillor Bogomba Rashid said it was unacceptable for the council that collected local revenue satisfactorily to claim inability to pay the costs of running legitimate council meetings. “Every fiscal year we (council) exceed the revenue collection targets, how is it possible that this council lacks funds to run legitimate council meetings and thus delay implementing plans to bring development to the people?” asked Mr Rashid.