Allianz is in preparations to expand its presence in the East African insurance market – building on a solid foundation in Kenya and with the acquisition of the majority of shares in Jubilee General Insurance Company in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Mauritius and Burundi. Allianz has today initiated a series of events aiming to introduce the brand to the East African market, not only as a worldwide insurance leader, but also as a global thought leader and expert in financial and insurance markets. The first in the series of events kicked off today with a presentation and discussion with Ludovic Subran, Chief Economist of Allianz SE, titled “Vaccine Economics, Trade, China and Growth in Africa”. The event was followed by a panel discussion with East African and German- African business leaders followed by Q&A with Ludovic Subran and members of the Allianz Africa regional executive board Coenraad Vrolijk, Anuj Agarwal and Delphine Traoré, respectively CEO, CFO and COO of Allianz Africa. Allianz Research is confident about the short-term economic development and forecasts a strong rebound of global GDP by over 4.4 per cent  for 2021. The insurer says that besides huge ongoing monetary and fiscal impulses, the main growth driver in 2021 will be a positive ‘confidence shock’, triggered by the vaccination campaign, boosting consumption, investment and trade. “A fast and successful vaccination campaign could lift spirits even more, adding a two percentage points to GDP growth. The driver would be consumption powered by the unleashing of excess savings of households. In the Eurozone alone, around EUR 500 billion are sitting on the sidelines, waiting to be spent. A botched vaccine campaign, however, would work in the opposite direction”, said Ludovic Subran, chief economist at Allianz. After being through the worst recession in its recent history in 2020 with a -4.2 per cent decline of GDP, the Allianz economists expect the African economy to rebound by +3.2 per cent in 2021. However, despite Covid-19 infection rates remained relatively low on the continent compared with the other parts of the World, African economies were severely hit by the crisis due to weak internal and external demand and commodity price shocks. In 2021, the recovery is expected to be driven by stronger domestic and world demand and trade, higher commodity prices and resuming tourism activity. The insurer observes that in 2021, Africa will benefit from supportive fiscal stimuli, and good financing conditions globally and that interest rates in particular will remain low, very long in the US and even longer
in Europe. “Low interest rates are a sweet poison. The Covid-19 crisis has worsened fiscal imbalances in Africa. The increasing of public spending and the decreasing of government revenues from tourism, natural resources and taxes pushed up public debt to hardly sustainable levels. African governments have now less fiscal space than after at the onset of the Great Financial Crisis to boost economic recovery. The main economic challenge for Africa is to finance growth sustainably”, said LudovicSubran. He adds that the need to focus on attractiveness and competitiveness will be key to the recovery process.