OMAR Abdulrahman is happy to get back to his job of tour guiding from this month. He was among the more than estimated 5,000 people who were left jobless in the tourism sector in Zanzibar amid COVID-19 outbreak in March this year. “It is a big relief, but many are still waiting. Tourists are slowly coming to Tanzania, and I am back to my job as a tour guide in Stone Town,” he said. The Zanzibar Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities says the pace at which the tourism industry is reviving has been good. Last Friday the Ministry’s senior leaders led by its Minister Ms Lela Mohamed Mussa waited at the Abeid Amani Karume International Airport (AAKIA) to receive the first KLM charter direct flight from Amsterdam which brought 170 tourists in Zanzibar. Last September the government said that at least 5,000 employees in the tourism sector in Zanzibar were laid-off after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The government said they were undertaking an assessment to establish the full impact caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in all sectors, and how the affected staff could be supported. But before any help, in June Zanzibar joined with Tanzania mainland to reopen tourism activities to both normal scheduled flights and the charter flights. Lack of jobs following the close down of hotels and restaurants was a thorny issue to handle as the laid-off workers continued to push the government and hotels owners to find ways to help them survive during the period of the closure. Experts say that although Tanzania opened its doors for tourists and to revive the tourism industry, full recovery of the industry should be expected in the next three to five years as workers are still losing financial stability. In response to the laid-off hotels staff plea for support members of the Zanzibar Association of Tourism Investors (ZATI) met to find out alternatives. The management of Filao Beach Hotel-Zanzibar, which runs tourists hotels in Paje, Michamvi, and Chwaka came-up with an idea of finding small land to farm by the hotels staff. “We formed an NGO dubbed ‘Our Farm Zanzibar’ later in March this year when coronavirus pandemic was already forcing us to close. About 25 workers had to shift to work in farm instead of hotels,” Mr Yves Montel- Director of the hotel & founder of the NGO said. He says that on small area of land (2.1 acres) at the Filao Beach Hotel premises, at Chwaka village, they started growing vegetables in May this year and already harvesting, “It takes about four months for tomatoes to grow and harvest.” Since they started the farming already they have harvested three tonnes of tomatoes, most of which is consumed at the hotels which are now getting back to life with most tourists from Russia. At the Chwaka farm, they also grow sweet pepper, and eggplants. Montel also says that similar area of land in Paje village is being used to grow bananas (ten thousand banana trees have been planted), while a 300 square metres green House is underway at Kiboje village and ‘Our Farm Zanzibar’ is also establishing training in agriculture for the interested youths. “We are farming using some fertilizers as we plan to shift to organic farming in the near future. Products from organic farming are on high demand and youth who may opt for farming, have a chance to make good money out of farming,” he said. The director said that he plans to keep or retain the 25 youths to continue working in the farms to produce more, and if tourism business gets back to normal, it will be another employment opportunity for fresh people. ‘Our Farm Zanzibar’ national chairman, Mr Taufiq Salum Turkey, a prominent businessman running hotels, industries and marine transport said that he wants to see many youth helped in farming skills so that they can get self-employment. He said that there is no problem with access to market if the products from farm are of required quality and standard particularly at this time when organic products are on high demand globally, because of the ongoing battle to fight Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) which health experts link to improper use of fertilizers on crops. Mr Turkey who is also Member of Parliament (MP) for Mpendae constituency says that the planned training farming class will be of great importance to the young people to acquire skills under the facilitation of officers from the Tanzania Horticultural Association (TAHA). Mr Emanuel Shayo, ‘agronomist’ says he is working with the management of Filao Beach Hotel Zanzibar to grow the vegetables. “It has been success and challenges due to ‘crop pests (mainly the Tuta-Absoluta and Aphids), and diseases.’ Mr Kombo Kombo- a farmer and Manager of the farm being developed by ‘Our Farm Zanzibar’ says the hotel staff turned farmers are happy for the alternative plan to keep them busy during the difficult times caused by COVID-19. TAHA is committed to the growth, promotion, and continued development of the horticulture industry in Tanzania, which includes flowers, fruits, vegetables, spices, herbs and horticultural seeds. It is a catalyst promoting Public-Private-Partnership thereby providing a platform for industry networking, and partnership at both the local and international levels. Mr Daniel Kisoko and Mr Rashid Msekeni are officers from TAHA who were at the farm of ‘Filao Beach Hotel’ in Chwaka. They said that the farm Zanzibar was one of its 200 members in Zanzibar they have been supporting. Kisoko said that the basic things required for anybody to start a farm are land, commitment, water, and ready to follow the farming guidelines, “Normally if you are our member, we support you with skills, advice, and help to get loan and market for the products.” He said that for an individual, payment fee is 100,000/-, a group of five people or more each person is charged 20,000/- and for an NGO like ‘Our Farm Zanzibar’ the fee is 200,000/-, “We help our members achieve their goals.” Dr Abdalla Mohamed Juma, Executive Secretary of the Zanzibar Tourism Commission said that they expect tourism activities to return to normal gradually. Tourism is Zanzibar’s largest economic sector and essential for local socioeconomic stability. It employs more than seventy thousand people and contributes 27 per cent of the GPD according to the data in the ministry responsible for tourism.