CHINA President Xi Jinping yesterday made a historic one-hour call to President John Magufuli during which the two leaders discussed a range of issues including forging bilateral ties especially on the economic fronts. The two leaders agreed to closely synergise their development strategies, deliver more solid outcomes in their comprehensive cooperative partnership, and contribute to the building of the China-Africa community with a shared future. During the talks, President Xi also congratulated his counterpart for recording a landslide victory in the October 28 General Election. According to a statement released by the State House Directorate of Information, President Xi said the re-election of President Magufuli resulted from an outstanding performance in his first term in office during which he spearheaded the country’s economic growth. He said Tanzania’s economic growth pace is evidence that the East African nation is likely to become an economic giant in Africa. President Xi hailed President Magufuli for his unique strategy in combating Covid-19 pandemic saying China is also continuing with the fight against the scourge. The Asian giant’s leader congratulated President Magufuli for displaying unwavering commitment in undertaking flagship projects including the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), and the 2,115 MW Nyerere Hydropower Project. President Xi pledged his country’s support in accomplishing the projects. On his part, President Magufuli expressed his appreciation to President Xi for acknowledging Tanzania’s achievements under his leadership. He assured President Xi that Tanzania will continue to cement the good relations between the two countries dating 55 years back when the founding fathers, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Chairman Mao Zedong initiated the historic ties. President Magufuli pledged Tanzania’s continuous support to China on various international issues. He invited Chinese investors to come and invest in the country, mentioning some of the areas for investments as manufacturing areas, tourism and construction. He also asked China to support Tanzania’s major projects by offering concession loans. He mentioned the projects as the 358MW Ruhudji hydropower project, 222MW Rumakali River project and construction of roads in Zanzibar. He also asked China to open up its market for various products, especially agricultural goods from Tanzania. President Xi promised to work on President Magufuli’s requests including power production projects such as Ruhudji, Rumakali, Julius Nyerere Hydropower project and purchase of agriculture products as well as construction of SGR. Despite the rapid and tremendous changes in the world during the past 50 years and more, the unbreakable brotherhood between China and Tanzania and their firm belief in friendly cooperation has remained unchanged. In 2013, when Chinese President Xi Jinping made his maiden foreign trip after assuming the presidency, he came to Africa, and Tanzania was his first stop. The two countries have always respected each other’s right to independently choose a political system and development path, and unconditionally support each other’s efforts to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests. The two countries have conducted fruitful cooperation in infrastructure, industry, agriculture, trade, investment, education, health and tourism. China has been Tanzania’s largest trading partner for four consecutive years. In 2019, the trade volume between the two countries exceeded US$ 4.1 billion, ranking the second in China’s bilateral trade with East African countries. China is the largest source of investment for Tanzania, with more than 700 projects and a total value exceeding US$ 7 billion. These investment projects have created approximately 150,000 direct and indirect jobs for Tanzanians.