TANZANIA Livestock Research Institute (TALIRI) is executing a robust programme to improve productivity of beef breeds through strategic crossbreeding. Trends show that the beef industry in Tanzania is mainly constrained by low genetic potential of existing stock, inadequate infrastructure and marketing systems, prevalence of animal diseases, weak livestock farmer organisations and inadequate technical support services, among others. TALIRI’s Acting Director General Dr Jonas Kizima said the programme is based on upgrading the Boran cattle using Beef Master Semen up to 75 per cent. “Growth rate at specific ages is an important factor for selection of females and males in this programme. Considerable attention is given to body weights at 36 and 72 weeks of age,” he explained. He explained that the focus is also to improve livelihoods among the livestock farmers by heightening incomes and food security through breeding suitable beef cattle that fit pastoral and agro-pastoral production environments. Along with that, Dr Kizima stated over the need for wider efforts to tackle challenges and capitalising opportunities in beef industry. “There are several strategies and options that need to be embraced so as to have a bouncing and mushrooming livestock industry that is bound to contribute more to the household and national economies. Briefly, orientation of physical, financial and intellectual resources has to do with increase in levels of investment that is over and above the current levels,” he observed. He itemised some of the strategies as review of taxes, tariffs and policies so as to create more conducive climates for investment and growth of production and agro-processing ventures and local, national and regional levels. According to him, other needed efforts must venture on establishment of an enabling and supportive environment for joint village land use planning, and for the protection of rangelands, investment in livestock breed improvement as well as pastures and forages improvement for beef production. “The current and past effort foreseen in the livestock industry in Tanzania are part of a broader processes of agricultural transformation that aimed at improving productivity and increasing incomes at household and national levels,” he unveiled. The livestock industry in Tanzania plays important socio-economic roles that include contributing to building a strong national economy, household food supplies and incomes, employment opportunities as well as nurturing natural resources. The country has a total area of 945,000 square kilometres, whereby 62,000 square kilometres of the surface area is covered by water, and 60 million hectares is rangelands that is suitable for livestock production. The available rangeland resources and varied forage and fodder resources are suitable for grazing to the available 33.4 million cattle; 21.3 million goats and 5.65 million sheep, more than 1.85 million pigs, 47.4 million indigenous poultry and other non-conventional species such as donkeys and rabbits. As per the 2012/13 National Panel Survey, 50 per cent of all households keep livestock (4.6 million households), 62per cent of which are rural and 23 per cent urban, with ownership patterns dominated by chickens (86pc households), goats (48pc), cattle (35pc), pigs (9pc) and other livestock 10 per cent. Traditional breeds and processes dominate the Tanzania livestock sector with Tanzania Short Horn Zebu the most widespread cattle breed in the nation.