WHEN President Hussein Ali Hassan Mwinyi said last month that Zanzibar city was dirty and it was a shame to the authorities, it was a wakeup call to government leaders at all levels to initiate cleanliness campaign. At least twice, Dr Mwinyi put it bluntly that the city is dirty. That was after he saw uncollected waste on the roads and overflowing sewage chambers from clogged drainage lines. The city, municipal, and town councils authorities attributed the filthiness to lack of cleaning equipment, unskilled labour, insufficient cleaner. Only less than half of more than 300 tonnes of mixed wastes produced daily in Zanzibar city is collected by the few trucks and taken to dumping site. However, the authorities had no clear answers as to why they had no research report about the needs or requirements to keep the Zanzibar clean. They could not say why in the course of implementing the 93 million dollars - Zanzibar Urban Services Project (ZUSP) project they purchased vehicles and motorbikes for staff instead of garbage trucks. After an impromptu inspection in the city, Dr Mwinyi issued three-month to keep the city clean and ensure all projects under ZUSP are complete because it has taken too long with some of the projects substandard. Environmentalists also link filthiness in many developing countries like Zanzibar to poor planning, weak institutional and legal frame work, and ignorance among residents about wastes management, and irresponsibility, inadequate collection and transportation systems as well as unsafe final disposal. Although the municipalities are talking lack of equipment, changing people’s perception about handling wastes remains a big challenge in the country, analysists argue that without behaviour change on wastes, along with enforcement of bylaws keeping the clean can never succeed. Public awareness to individuals [and students] - producers of wastes to be responsible and avoid improper rubbish discarding has not been enough along with laxity to implements bylaws such as prohibiting reckless dumping of wastes. Plastics empties for: mineral water bottles, shopping bags, foods, cosmetics, and fabric containers, among many dangerous used plastics materials, still litter Zanzibar environment mainly because there has been no personal initiative to control wastes. Many people in homes, schools, and streets still have the perception that waste management is not their responsibility because they pay tax, “Cleaning our town, our work areas, and markets in the work for the municipality.” Fruit (banana, orange) peels, and other plastics from sweets, cookies, scratched prepaid vouchers for mobile phones, broken glasses, and other used materials are all discarded carelessly by road users including students. Like in many countries, in Zanzibar the problem of solid waste management (SWM) has been a concern which has existed for long especially in the Stone Town, the World heritage site and one of the tourists’ favourite places to visit. Available data for solid waste generation in the entire area of Zanzibar shows that 238,712 tonnes are generated per year, which is approximately equal to 664 tonns per day. The three Municipal Councils of Zanzibar (Urban, West A, and West B) in total are generating 132, 515 tonnes per year equal to 368 tons per day, which is nearly to half of the total amount of waste generated in the entire archipelago. Amid the challenges in managing wastes also linked to the growing population, authorities here have been looking for the best way to manage solid wastes, and partnership with private sector and other organizations seem to be the best choice to keep the Islands clean. In this regard, the Zanzibar Environment Management Authority (ZEMA), was working with the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE)- a research and advocacy organization based in New Delhi, India to manage household wastes in a selected areas of the city. Mr Sheha Mjaja Juma- Director General (DG) of ZEMA says it is important for respective authorities to raise awareness and inject incentives in waste segregation, recycling and composting. “Waste is no longer waste for just discarding, but resource where everything has value; we can turn organic wastes into compost which is used as fertilizers.”