PRESIDENT John Magufuli has met the deadline of leaders submitting Assets Declaration forms to the Ethics Secretariat offices in Dodoma. The forms were submitted to the Commissioner of Ethics Secretariat Judge of the Court of Appeal, Sivangilwa Mwangesi by the Secretary to the President Mr Ngusa Samike. Speaking recently in Dodoma during the swearing in of Judge Mwangesi as the new Commissioner of Ethics Secretariat, President Magufuli asked public servants to fill the Wealth Declaration Forms before the deadline that was set for Thursday. Elaborating, the President ressed on confidentiality of the submitted forms to the respective authorities, ordering that all forms for senior public officials must be filled offline. “The forms can be accessed online, but filling and submission must be in-person,” said Dr Magufuli. According to President Magufuli, the advent in technology has made it easy for people with ill-motives to hack anyone’s scanned document and manipulate the figure, hence caution must be taken. However, he stated that though online submissions lack originality, questioned also the privacy of every document submitted online. “I had suggested before... and I will say it again. Photocopies can be manipulated,” he said, emphasizing that the document can be made available online, however, the officials must send the documents at the secretariat’s office for usual filling. The submission of wealth declaration forms for government leaders is according to the Public Leadership Code of Ethics Act No 13 of 1995. According to the legislation, senior public officials must declare their assets every year and are also required to make a final declaration on leaving office. The principal goal of income and asset disclosure systems is merely part of the country’s plan to combat corruption. During the event, the then Acting Ethics Commissioner at the Public Leaders Ethics Secretariat, Waziri Kipacha said 15,176 officials were obliged to declare their assets, but unfortunately, only 1,498 or 9.9 per cent of them had so far updated their declarations. The ethics secretariat is an independent department under the President’s Office entrusted with powers to administer the ethical conduct of public leaders. It was established under Article 132 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977 with the mandate to implement the public leadership code of ethics Act number 13 of 1995 as amended by the Act No. 5 of 2001. The Act came into operation on July 01, 1995 and is applicable in Zanzibar, as well as Mainland Tanzania to public officers holding offices under the Union Government. Currently, the secretariat is operating through its headquarters in Dodoma and zonal offices across the country. Meanwhile, Vice-President Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday gave New Year gifts to 11 families of people with disabilities at the Buigiri Centre in Dodoma. Mama Samia was represented by the Secretary to the Vice-President’s Office, Felister Mdemu. In her message, Mama Samia wished the needy families a happy New Year 2021, saying she is thankful to the Almighty for enabling them to cross to another year. She also wished all Tanzanians a happy and prosperous new year 2021, reminding them to keep working hard for the greater interest of the country.