THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam has confiscated into government property a consignment of diamond weighing 71,654.45 Carats worth over 61bn/- found at Julius Nyerere International Airport being exported to Belgium. Senior Resident Magistrate in Charge, Godfrey Isaya issued the confiscation order on Friday after convicting on their own plea of guilty two government diamond valuers, Achard Kalugendo and Edward Rweyemamu, of one count of occasioning loss to the government. Apart from the order, the magistrate also sentenced the duo to either pay 1m/- each as fine or go to jail for three years in default of paying the fine in question. Kalugendo, who is the Director of the Tanzania Sorting Company (TANSORT) and Rweyemamu, the government diamond valuer, paid the fine to escape the jail term. Before the proceedings, the two diamond valuers wrote to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), expressing their interest to end the economic trial through plea bargaining agreement. Having accepted the offer given by the duo, the DPP made amendments to the charge they were facing. Principal State Attorney Monica Mbogo, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon and State Attorney Jacqueline Nyantori, for the prosecution, presented the new charge in court against the two accused persons on behalf of the DPP. The prosecution told the court that Kalugendo and Rweyemamu committed the offence on diverse dates between August 25 and 31, 2017, at different places in Dar es Salaam and Shinyanga Regions. It was alleged that, by their willful acts, being government diamond valuers employed by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, jointly and together, they caused the government of United Republic of Tanzania to suffer a pecuniary loss of 29,509,821.84 US dollars. Having been presented with the memorandum of facts of the case, the two accused persons pleaded guilty. The prosecution, thereafter, tendered the minerals in court as exhibits. It was at that point in time when the court convicted the duo of the offence, charged and sentenced them accordingly. Before being sentenced, the prosecution requested the court to punish the convicts severely to serve as a lesson not only to them but also to other people who might be tempted to sabotage the country economy through smuggling minerals. On the other hand, the convicts pleaded for mercy because they had been in remand for three years and that they had worked with the Ministry of Minerals diligently for over 22 years without any problems. The two diamond valuers were arraigned after a Parliamentary Select Committee on diamonds presented its report to the National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai, revealing gross irregularities in the supervision of the 100 billion US dollar business. According to the report, while the Ministry of Minerals documents show that the country had extracted diamond minerals weighing 1.47 million tones, the statement is contradicted by the report from the Tanzania Mineral Audit Agency (TMAA) which recorded 1.51million tones. The minerals were valued at 367.3 million US dollars, against 374.6 million US dollars. Despite the value of the mineral, Tanzania is the only country in Africa trading diamond at a low price of around 300 US dollar per carat, compared to Botswana that trades the same at an average of 1900 US dollars. The then Select Committee Chairman, Mussa Zungu revealed when presenting the report further that the committee had also found the record regarding royalties between 2007 and 2016. The ministry's report shows about 18 million US dollars was paid against 15 million US dollars registered in TMAA statement. "There was no explanation from both parties regarding differences in the statements, although they are all government offices," Mr Zungu, who is currently the Minister of State in the Vice-President's Office (Union and Environment) is quoted as saying when presenting the report in question. Surprisingly, however, he said, the TRA records indicated that between 2007 and 2016, diamonds weighing 942,099 tons were extracted, contrary to the 1.51 million tons reported by TMAA. This means that the TRA did not account for about 198.743 million US dollars, or 437.23bn/-, according to the report. The committee, however, accused Petra Diamonds Company Limited, which succeeded the Williamson Diamond Mining Company in Mwadui, Shinyanga, for forgery and hiking equipment costs, to deny the government its legitimate revenues.