TANZANIA Pulses Network (TPN) has urged farmers to continue cultivating crops and relieve them of the anxiety on access to markets both locally and internationally. The call was made at the weekend in the city by TNP Chairman of Board of Directors, Mr Cosmas Mtesigwa Bulala, at the annual meeting which involved stakeholders such as farmers, traders and processors. He added that in the cultivation of pulse farmers had been advised to obtain the market information of their production from TPN to develop this crop and raise incomes of farmers and increase GDP. “We have a strategic plan to enter into an agreement between the governments of India and Tanzania in the sale of peas where it will help us find markets abroad and locally,” he said. Mr Bulala noted that farmers had been facing the challenge of accessing quality seeds and asked the government and stakeholders to work with TPN to enable farmers to get quality seeds so that they could get high yields. On the same occasion, Indian High Commissioner to Tanzania Sanjiv Kohli said India would cooperate with pulses stakeholders, including the government to increase production. “We have been witnessing friendly relations between Tanzania and India in sectors of education and agriculture,” he said. Mr Kohli noted that in Tanzania agriculture was the backbone of economic development. For his part, Pakistani High Commissioner to Tanzania Muhammad Saleem advised farmers to ensure they grew quality pulses seeds. He added that they would continue sharing knowledge and skills from Pakistani farmers to increase pulses export. According to his presentation, Tanzania ranks 14th on the list of exporters of pulses, lentils and legumes to Pakistan, while globally, Tanzania ranks 12th on the list of top global exporters of pulses, lentils and legumes. “If you want to produce good pulses and be in a competitive market you should consider the quality of seeds, price and market to continue utilising local and international markets." TPN stakeholders recommended that two high commissioners in collaboration with Tanzania to organise pulses trade sessions aimed at tracking pulses deals, build capacity and share skills aimed at improving pulses business inside and outside the country. There are numerous types of pulses grown in the country including dry beans, cowpeas, chickpeas, mung beans (green, black, yellow grams) and pigeon peas. Four main zones, namely Lake, Central, Southern and Northern, are the leading producers of pulses in the country.