MORE than ten horticultural companies from Tanzania have set their sights on capturing the European market following their participation in the Fruit Logistica 2020 expo held earlier this month in Berlin, Germany. During the three-day event, 15 local producers and exporters used the world’s premier vegetables and fruits fair to seal lucrative deals with European buyers. Commenting on the country’s participation in the annual expo, Tanzanian Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr Abdallah Saleh Possi exuded optimism on the performance of the sector which employs about 2.5 million Tanzanians. “If the lucrative deals signed here are anything to go by, then there’s good indication that our horticultural producers and exporters are destined for greater heights,” explained the envoy recently. According to Dr Possi, such deals are likely to cement the ever-green business ties between Tanzania and Europe, and further woo in international investors. During the global event, Tanzanian farmers and exporters met and interacted with potential investors and stakeholders from the International Trade Centre (ITC) and GLOBALG.A.P. “The embassy is planning to coordinate and host seminars for investors, with a view of linking them up with our local producers and exporters,” hinted Dr Possi. Currently, Tanzania’s horticultural production stands at around 6 million tons per year. The value of Tanzania’s horticultural exports, on the other hand, amounted to $24.4 in 2015. A total of 3, 200 exhibitors and 78,000 trade visitors attended the annual event to realise their full business potential within the international fresh produce trade–and to write their own success stories. Fruit Logistica covers every single sector of the fresh produce business and provides a complete picture of the latest innovations, products and services at every link in the international supply chain. Among other things, the exhibition which attracted companies from across the entire fresh produce sector– from global players to small and medium-sized companies and organisations from all over the world, also offered superb networking and contact opportunities to the key decision-makers in every sector of the industry.       