YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Luc Eymael admitted that it will be a tough game against Coastal Union as the two sides meet in the Mainland Premier League match at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga today. The 27-time champions will be searching their first win in three previous league games, which saw them dropping six points after registering three draws to make their title chase for this season a difficult puzzle to solve. It all began with a 1-1 draw against Mbeya City at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, before posting a barren draw against Tanzania Prisons at the same venue and a recent 1-1 balance against Polisi Tanzania at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi. The interesting part about the match is that it is the battle between the fourth and fifth placed teams on the league ladder with only two points separating them, hence if Coastal Union who have 38 points win, they will dislodge Yanga who sits fourth on the table with 40 points. Speaking prior to the match, Eymael said they will be facing a tough opponent Coastal Union, predicting a tough encounter for both teams. “We know that they are coming into the match after losing their past league match hence they will play to win but we have prepared well to claim maximum three points because that is what our fans are looking for,” Eymael said. He added that he is aware that football has three results of a win, loss or draw but insisted that after registering three consecutive draws, they will now do what it takes to win today. On his part, Coastal Union Head Coach, Juma Mgunda said they know how important the game is to them therefore, getting three points is crucial for his side. “All the players are fit ahead of tomorrow’s (today) clash and it is possible for us to emerge winners. I know that it is a game which has interest from many football fans in the country bearing in mind that Yanga is a good team but for us, we will fight hard to the end,” vowed Mgunda. For the hosts, they have attained four points in their previous three games despite losing 2-1 to Ruvu Shooting in their recent league match. They beat Azam 2-1 at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, before recording a goalless draw against KMC respectively