AFRICAN leaders should recognize human capital as one of the continent’s greatest treasures, which deserve thorough pursue and study to enhance more development. Making the observation, while presiding over Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), Apprenticeship Program (CAP) in Dar es Salaam recently, as an initiative driven by the CEOs Roundtable of Tanzania (CEOrt) in partnership with Strathmore University Business School (SBS), former President Benjamin Mkapa said that the continent’s upcoming CEOs should demonstrate key leadership aspects, which guarantee excellence in their goals as leaders. He said that CAP is an initiative designed to train talented Tanzanians through mentorship and coaching sessions, and prepares them to become future CEOs. “My mentor was Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, He selected me from civil service and coached me into politics by making me an Editor of the party’s newspaper, and then promoted me as a Press Secretary then an Ambassador and later Foreign Affair’s Minister, but future CEOs must have integrity of purpose and conduct assigned business professionally,” added Mr Mkapa. While sharing his leadership journey with the audience, including how sometimes he had to make tough decisions for himself, family and nation, Mr Mkapa further said: “In leadership, it is imperative to identify the right people to work with and make sure you know them thoroughly. Also learn to acknowledge those who served in prior leaderships and seek to understand qualities, which made them stand out. “Finally, it is necessary to revisit decisions you made or made by your superiors in order to make corrections or improvements, where necessary in order to achieve your goals.” Having recently launched his book; “My Life, My Purpose: A Tanzanian President Remembers”, CEOrt Executive Director Santina Majengo Benson said they invited the former President to the occasion as a special guest speaker, because of his leadership style that made Tanzania realize several goals. She added that the CEO Apprenticeship Programme participants learnt a lot from the engagement with retired President Mkapa, and promised to continue to developing and emulating his leadership skills as future CEOs and in order to contribute meaningfully to the country’s sustainable social-economic growth. “As a patron of the African leadership Forum (ALF), which is recognised as Africa’s dedicated space for open and frank discussion about the challenges facing Africa, former President Mkapa continues to contribute to both current and aspiring leaders in the Pan African community,” said Ms Benson. The CEO noted that upon completion of the 12-month programme on leadership training kills, participants will have acquired the right blend of skills, thus enhancing their leadership capabilities. “Throughout the course of the programme, CAP participants would have the opportunity as visionary leaders as part of the group-based mentorship sessions. The objective is for the CEOs to share their leadership journey, experience and lessons learned,” she said. She said that CAP aims to identify CEOs in waiting and through capacity building and knowledge transfer, besides equipping them with the necessary skills to lead. “With their wealth of knowledge and expertise these upcoming CEOs can make a significant impact towards developing the next generation of Tanzanian leaders,” she said. One of the programme participants, Exim Bank Marketing Director Stanley Kafu, noted that one of the leadership lessons he acquired from retired President was ‘define your vision, build your environment–get the right team, give credence to your goals, adapt as needed and leave a legacy you can be proud of.’