NATIONAL boxing team members have been urged to go for gold medals when they set foot in the ring at the 2020 African Olympic Qualifiers, which is set for Dakar, Senegal from February 20-29th this year. The team was flagged off in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the National Sports Council (NSC) Acting Secretary General, Neema Msitha, who called on the team members to observe maximum discipline and go for medals that will ensure their qualification to Tokyo Olympics. Msitha, who represented Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, told the boxers to avoiding misconducts such as doping, saying such acts will tarnish the good image of the nation. A team of four boxers will jet off today to Dakar in time for the event. They are Yusuf Changarawe (Light heavy weight 81 kg), Alex Isendi (Light welter weight 64 kg), Boniphace Mlingwa (Bantam weight 56 kg) Haruma Swanga (Super heavy weight 86 kg). The team is under the tutelage of Coach David Yombayomba and the head of delegation is Samuel Mwera. Msitha challenged the boxer to consider themselves lucky for being selected in the national team, saying it is a great honour for them. “Make sure that you repay the favour to Tanzanians by obtaining qualifications for 2020 Tokyo Olympics and help increase the number of country’s athletes in this year’s Summer Olympics,” she said. She also requested support from stakeholders to help restore the lost glory as well as reenergize the sport, which is currently experiencing stagnation. Msitha handed the national flag to the team Captain Isendi, who said that the team is ready for the battle. He admitted that the task ahead is tough but said they are well prepared and hopefully they will get qualification. On his part, Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) President, Gulam Rashid urged the boxers to battle vigilantly to qualify for the quadrennial Games. Currently, only two athletes from athletics have already booked their qualifications. “Dakar qualifiers will be tough but the final World Olympic qualifier event, which is scheduled for Paris, France from May 13–20, 2020, will be toughest, so you need to ensure you get your qualification in Dakar event,” said Rashid. TOC Vice-President Henry Tandau commended the government and the Tanzania People’s Defence Force (TPDF) Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), General Venance Mabeyo for offering the team residential training during its preparations ahead of Dakar event. TOC Secretary General, Filbert Bayi said that efforts by the government through the Ministry of Sports, NSC, TOC and Open Boxing Federation of Tanzania (OBFT) made it possible for the team to travel to Dakar, despite having being notified on a short notice.