AS 2020 (biannual year) favours the illegal Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) ritual, the police, in collaboration with other advocates of its abolition, stakeholders say they are well prepared to ensure the harmful practice is not performed in any of the regions in the country. Statistics show that the FGM prevalence rate between females aged 15 to 49 years decreased over the past decade from 18 per cent in 1996 to 10 per cent in 2016. The National Coordinator of the Police Gender and Children’s Desk, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Faidha Suleiman disclosed during the commemoration of the International Day of Zero Tolerance for FGM held at the Little Theatre in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. SSP Suleiman pointed out that in Tarime District, the ritual is usually done in years which are divided by two, even though 2019 was not the season but still one clan performed the custom. According to her, 11 more clans have yet to undertake the practice considering this is the biannual cutting season; the police have strengthened its task forces in the area to clock it. “While security was intensified in Tarime last year, the clan which had gone ahead with the cutting moved the girls to Dar es Salaam for the cutting to be carried out there instead,” said SSP Suleiman. Anti-FGM activist and Director of Hope for Girls and Women, Ms Rhobi Samwelly, noted that protection mechanisms had been in set in collaboration with volunteers, Good Samaritans and families which have shunned the harmful practice. “As stakeholders, we are committed to reach victims of FGM to ensure their safety, thus we have been going around in schools to raise awareness to both girls and boys on the harmful practice,” she said. She called upon the government to accord support when it is reported to them. However, strict legislations should be enacted to bring to book all parties, including politicians and traditional elders inciting FGM. “If the elders are blessing the tools and politicians are backing the acts to please the elders to obtain votes, the law should be set to hold the parties accountable. “Before the ‘ngaribas’ engage in the practice, their tools have to be blessed by the elders, for their personal gains…this has to stop,” noted Ms Samwelly. Likewise, the legislation should contain a section which also holds the parents and children accountable for coaching their children to admit in court that the cutting was done with their own consent, leaving them walking free from facing charges.