THE Government has said it will not remove petty traders from areas, where they are currently selling their wares without first providing them with alternative venues as permanent solutions. The stance was made here yesterday by Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Mr Mwita Waitara, while touring Makoroboi Street where, among other things, he consoled the hawkers following an inferno accident, which burnt down their business stalls. On February 12th, this year fire erupted at Makotoboi Market in Mwanza City and burnt property, including stalls belonging to 159 petty traders, causing huge loss estimated as 247milion/-to them. Mr Waitara said that it is the wish of President Dr John Magufuli to see into that petty traders run their activities without any interference; many countries also allow hawkers to do business and pay taxes. He said that hawkers like any other citizen pay taxes and earn a decent living from such business; hence, there was no point to get interference from the government. “No one is allowed to remove petty traders without informing them of where they should go. Alternative places should be first prepared to accommodate them with enough toilets, shelters and accessible by their customers, who buy their wares,” said Mr Waitara. However, he cautioned them to be friendly with the government by accepting some directives issued and avoid doing business, where they can endanger people’s lives. On her side, Nyamagana District Commissioner Dr Philis Nyimbi said that Makoroboi Street being a central business place in the city, hosts about 700 petty traders with Identity Cards dispatched last year for them, and helped the district to collect more than 300m/-. However, she urged them to avoid running their business near roadsides, where motorists might hit them, or facilitate unnecessary traffic jams. Commenting, National Chairman of Petty Traders (SHIUMA) Mr Ernest Matondo advised the government to speed up process of issuing loans to victims of fire, so that they can start business. He said that if the government will support them early, they would be at a position to resume in their businesses and once again cater for their families.