GERSON Fraga netted a brace as defending champions Simba beat Coastal Union 2-0 in the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) encounter at the wet National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Following the victory, Simba maintained their grip of the top spot on 47 points from 18 outings and they have opened up 11 points gap with second placed Azam FC, who were on the sideline yesterday. Coastal Union remained third on 30 points after playing 18 matches. Brazilian midfielder was arguably man of the match as he put up a determined display, covering large area of the pitch to block, win second ball, set play and positioning himself in goal scoring areas. Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck made three changes in his defence by starting with Haruna Shamte, Gadiel Michael and Tairone Santos, alongside experienced defender Erasto Nyoni. The trio replaced Shomari Kapombe, Mohamed Hussein and Pascal Wawa who featured in a previous 3-2 win over Namungo FC at the same venue last Wednesday and the changes worked well as Simba looked compact in defending and kept a clean sheet for the first time in four previous league matches. The Belgian trainer also deployed twin strikers of skipper John Bocco and Meddie Kagere and this to a great extent changed the approach of the game applied by Simba recently, as the duo stretched defenders to the limit. And, as predicted, it was a tough encounter as both teams tooth and nail battled for maximum points but Simba were much on the limelight. Simba started on a front foot and referee ruled out Meddie Kagere’s goal minute from the kickoff for an offside. It was another controversial decision as Bocco raced to a Fraga’s lay out pass and squared it to Kegere to slid the ball home. However, Simba were 1-0 up in the 7th minute, when Brazilian midfielder Gerson Fraga arrived at a well-placed set piece by Clatous Chama to head home past hapless goalkeeper. Simba slightly upped the gear in the game compared to their previous performance in a game against Namungo, and deploying twin strikers of John Bocco and Meddie Kagere. In the 37th minute, Erasto Nyoni sustained an ankle injury following a crude tackle by Coastal defender. He was replaced by sturdy Kennedy Juma. In 39th minute Ayoub Lyanga had the better of Gadiel Michael and his cross failed to make contact with a stretching leg of Shaaban Khamis at the far post. After the break, Coastal Union started on a strong gear as Simba chased the shadows. However, in the 53rd minute, Simba missed double chances. Initially, Jonas Mkude fired a shot that came off the goalkeeper’s frame and Kagere slipped to miss a rebound. In a follow up, Gadiel Michael raced to the left and released a cross that was well connected by Bocco but the keeper palmed his shot for a corner kick. In the 63rd minute, Simba introduced Hassan Dilunga for Ajib and Coastal Union brought in Hamad Majimengi for Shabaan Hamis. The changes seemed to benefit Simba as they upped the tempo. The Reds were rewarded as Fraga netted his second for Simba and his second of the day in the 78th minute. He was well positioned to finish off a spilled ball by keeper following a stinging shot by Dilunga. The Brazilian easily tapped home for his third goal of the campaign. With nine minutes to go, Bocco was replaced by Sharaff Shiboub as Simba ticked down the clock for maximum points. In another matches, Kagera Sugar thrashed bottom placed Singida United 3-0 at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba, whereas in Ruangwa, Lindi region, Namungo FC thumped Mbao FC 3-0 at the Kassim Majaliwa Stadium. Ndanda FC of Mtwara emerged with a 1-0 victory over Alliance at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara and at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast region, host Ruvu Shooting outshined Lipuli FC by 3-1, while Biashara United beat Mwadui FC 2- 1 at Karume Stadium in Musoma. The game between Tanzania Prisons and KMC FC at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma was called off after 53 minutes due to downpour same as the game between JKT Tanzania and Polisi Tanzania at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam.