THE winless run tag continues to grip Young Africans after th ey stam ped th e fourth draw in th eir tense encounter against Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga yesterday. However, looking to shrug off the three-match winless run, Yanga fought tooth and nail to shatter the winless tag, but the no-nonsense Coastal Union under captain Bakari Mwamnyeto couldn’t let them hit the desired target as the teams finished the 90 minutes scoreless. As predicted by Yanga’s Head Coach Luc Eymael, that the clash with the Tanga- based side could be tough, it was more than tough for the 27-time champions, who were hunting for their first win after being held in three previous league games. The fourth draw means Yanga have dropped 8 points, thus making their title chase this season look a mission impossible. It all began with a 1-1 draw against Mbeya City at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, before posting a barren draw against Tanzania Prisons at the same venue and a recent 1-1 draw with Polisi Tanzania at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi. By drawing with Yanga, Coastal Union, have now reaped 39 points while Yanga also continue to limp at the fourth position with 41 points. After yesterday’s encounter, Yanga will entertain Gwambina FC in the knockout phase of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) on Wednesday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. According to the league fixture, Yanga will be subjected to four back to back home games against Alliance FC on February 29th, against Mbao FC on March 3rd before hosting their traditional rivals Simba SC on March 8th. Four days later, Yanga will face KMC at the same venue. It was a game which had minimal goal attempts, especially in the first half as much of the play was seen at the midfield section of the pitch. Coastal Union’s best scoring chance came in the 16th minute courtesy of Ayoub Lyanga who capitalised on poor marking tactics of Yanga defenders, but goalkeeper Metacha Mnata was alert between the posts to clear the ball. As time went by, the opportunity for the visitors surfaced in the 23rd minute with Tariq Seif unleashing a longrange volley on the target, but Coastal Union goalkeeper Soud Dondola stood firm to punch it to safety for an abortive corner kick. Also, Bernard Morrison tested Dondola in the 32nd minute with an easy shot, but it was timely blocked with the hosts showing good quality in aerial balls. In the second half, Coastal Union enjoyed the lion’s share of the game as they succeeded to make a couple of dangerous moves towards their opponents’ goal, but most of them were wasted. It was again another perfect defensive display by the hosts who succeeded to silence Yanga lethal players like Morrison, Ditram Nchimbi, Papy Tshishimbi and Haruna Niyonzima. Yanga were the first side to make substitution in the 60th minute when Mrisho Ngasa replaced Balama Mapinduzi in a tactical move to rekindle the midfield section before making their second change in the 77th minute whereby defender Ally Mtoni came in for striker Tariq Seif. Coming up, on Wednesday, Yanga will welcome Gwambina FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) match whose winner will cruise into the last eight of the contest.