THE Head Coach of the Lindi based Namungo FC Hitimana Thierry commended his team’s commitment after their 3-0 victory over Mbao in the Premier League match held here at Majaliwa Stadium over the weekend. The hosts’ goals were netted by the former Young African and Dodoma FC striker Reliant Lusajo who scored a brace in the 34th and 79th minutes from Bigirimana Blaise’s assist while the goal was converted by Hashim Manyanya in the 45th minute after connecting a pass from Lucas Kikoti. The victory helped Namungo FC to earn vital three points and move to the fourth position with 31 points after 17 outings. They have won ten, drawn once and lost six matches. Namungo have netted twenty three and conceded eighteen goals. Speaking in a post-match interview, Hitimana said the match was difficult because they were playing against a good and strong team. He congratulated his players for following his instructions something which led them to the victory. According to him, the league is very difficult because each team is well prepared but they still have the aim of finishing in a good position at the end of the season. Adding, he said they now focus to make sure they win the matches ahead of them. The first one being against Alliance FC on Tuesday at Majaliwa stadium and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) against Mbeya City. On his side, Mbao FC head coach Hemed Morocco said his team played very well but the blunders in marking led to their loss. The former Singida United, Stand United and Coastal Union coach, Morocco said his team played well but their opponents created one chance and utilised the chances they created. He called upon the team’s football fans in Mwanza to continue supporting their team despite the poor results they are getting. Mbao FC, who are sponsored by GF trucks are now placed 15th after playing eighteen games. They have won only four, lost eight and drawn six matches. Mbao FC will now travel to Mtwara to play Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona stadium on Wednesday.