TAN choice Tanzania, the meat processing factory located at Soga area in Coast Region will commence its operations in April this year, with the government pledging to provide full support for the project to take off. The 15 million US dollars (over 30bn/-) worth meat processing plant is one of the projects and a success story that obtained export processing zone developer’s license from the Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA). “All is set for the launch of the meat factory operations in April. We are currently finalizing some logistics for the project to kick off,” said Dr Bonaventure Mtei, Tan Choice Project Coordinator, while briefing the Industry and Trade Permanent Secretary Prof Riziki Shemdoe during his visits at the facility over the weekend. Speaking during the tour Prof Shemdoe said the meat processing plant is one of the huge investments in the livestock sector with multiplying effect in the economy. “The government is keen to support all investors implementing such huge projects with multiplying effect and that will contribute to building strong industrial economy,” he said. The high tech meat processing plant will have capacity to slaughter and process 1,000 herds of cattle and 4,500 goats and sheep per day. Apart from using high tech in meat processing, the project is expected to create over 500 direct and many indirect jobs to Tanzanians. “I commend the Tan Choice investor for such a huge project that supports President John Magufuli quest to build industrial economy. The project will strategically help the livestock sector graduate and address the challenges of commercialising it,” remarked Prof Shemdoe. The meat processing facility will thus boost the livestock sector contribution to GDP currently 7.4 per cent as well as the sector’s growth which is significantly low at only 2.6 per cent. Tanzania has one of the largest livestock populations in Africa with 13.5 million heads of cattle, 5.5 million goats, 3.6 million sheep, 0.4 million pigs and 23.2 million chickens, according to statistics by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries. The EPZA Director General Col (rtd) Joseph Simbakalia said the meat processing plant will create and assure reliable markets for smallholder livestock keepers in the country. “The factory capacity presents immense opportunities to benefit the whole value chain from smallholder livestock farmers, transporters, suppliers,” he said. Furthermore, the strategic location of the factory will attract many people to invest in facilities and services for the people to be employed in the plant. Dr Mtei commended government efforts to make the project successful by identifying and addressing all bottlenecks. “Since the meat factory targets the export markets of European Union and Arab United Emirates, the meat products need to meet the international standards. This is important because it gives assurance to consumers and guarantee reliable markets to meat processors,” he said.