THE Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro has said that regional blocs and African content at large needed to unite if they are to succeed in combating organised crimes, including terrorism. The IGP said that no country could successfully win the war on organised crimes on its own in times of technological advancement which was negatively used by criminals and radical groups to expand territories for crime observed no border. “Cybercrimes, money laundering, extremism and terrorism, human trafficking are crimes facing East African Region and the entire continent in one way or another, they need joint efforts between countries if they are to be fought against successfully.” The IGP said as he opened a technical organs meeting of the Eastern Africa Police Chiefs Cooperation Organisation (EAPCCO). Mr Sirro, who doubles as chairperson of EAPCCO which joins together police chiefs from 14 countries, said it was evident that there were some forms of criminal acts which had diminished in number due to coordinated efforts being effected, but a lot more must be done. “Tanzania in particular, cross-border car theft, human trafficking and illicit drug transport have tremendously dwindled due to country to country cooperation. However, more effort is still needed as criminals come up with new tricks across borders. So, sharing of knowledge and expertise is needed to combat these organised crimes.” Meanwhile, the IGP urged Tanzanians to shun radicalisation and terrorism acts which he described to be satanic in nature. “Let us be aware that radicalisation changes one’s thinking, instilling in them satanic beliefs and false hopes like conquering governments. Once one’s mind is brain washed to such beliefs it is almost impossible to rectify it. The end is death as they try to massacre innocent people.” For his part, the Nairobi Regional Bureau Director of the International Criminal Police Organisation (INTERPOL) Gideon Kimilu said apart from traditional crimes, there were emerging criminal networks which needed joint efforts to effectively control them such as aircraft piracy. Mr Robert Boaz, the Director of Criminal investigation (DCI), said there was a need for cooperation between the countries as cross-border criminals operated in syndicated ways to sustain their missions. He said to combat such crimes, there was a need for countries to test their ability and capacity to ensure peace prevailed.