TANZANIA health professionals in collaboration with their Ugandan and UK counterparts have embarked on a research project that aims to test a locally assembled device for early diagnosis of cancer in children. The four - year project launched at the country’s national hospital in Dar es Salaam yesterday was dubbed “Aggressive Infection Related East Africa Lymphoma” and involves four partners- Muhimbili National Hospital ( MNH), Muhimbili University of Health and Allied sciences, Uganda and UK based Oxford University. Speaking on behalf of the hospitals’ Executive Director Prof Lawrence Museru, MNH Director of Medical Services, Dr Hedwiga Swai said that the project was expected to provide health professionals with possible diagnosis of cancer in its early stage in children and consequently increase their chances of survival. According to her the research intends to develop a simple blood test that diagnoses serious child blood cancer type known as ‘Epstein-Barr virus related lymphomas’ and common in Sub Saharan Africa. “At the moment to be diagnosed, children must endure painful needle biopsies for their cancer tumours, which take time to process,” Dr Swai said. She noted that currently children who undergo testing for the disease can spend up to three weeks to get their diagnosis results out, but with the new technology the waiting time would be reduced to between 24 and 48 hours. Dr Swai further pointed out that children with lymphoma can survive by more than 90 per cent if the ailment will be detected earlier in them, and proper medical treatment rendered. She, however, assured the public that MNH is committed to ensuring that the project is implemented to the highest quality. Assistant Director - Non Communicable Diseases in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Dr Sara Maongezi said that the government has placed high priority in improving cancer care in the country. “Among the efforts that the government has been doing include improving infrastructure for cancer diagnosis, as well as radiotherapy facilities in Zonal Referral Hospitals,” she said. In a related development, she urged scientists to continue developing research ideas to explore different types of cancers, which infect as a result of environmental, diet and lifestyle factors. Commenting, Anna Schuch a Professor of Haematology from the University of Oxford, who leads the survey said that they hope to bring to the next generation genetic a sequencing technology and artificial intelligence tool that would assist in mobile digital pathology in Tanzania and Uganda for rapid and advanced medical analysis. “If we achieve this aim, these tests could be used for other types of cancers and applied across Sub- Saharan Africa,” Prof Schuh said. Principal Investigator at MUHAS Dr Clara Chamba said the purpose of the project was to improve diagnosis, outcome and survival of the children infected with cancer. It will also reduce waiting time for diagnosis results. Dr Chamba added: “Through this project we want to diagnose lymphoma in children through normal blood tests by looking on specific tumour mutations instead of needle biopsies.” She explained that when someone has cancerous tumour, tiny bits of it break off and go into blood. “We know that DNA that comes from cancerous cells has unique changes called mutations, which in theory could be picked up by a very sensitive genetic test,” she said. The UK funded the research project to the tune of 13.5bn/- and will be delivered by medical teams based at Muhimbili National Hospital, Kilimanjaro Christian Centre (KCMC), and St Mary’s Hospital Lacor in Uganda as well as Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS).