I AM about to tell you something (sorry; You are about to read something I am about to write) and cheat myself that you’ll find it interesting enough to dance yourself to death. God forbid because I’m not in the mood to want you to rest in peace. I owe you not even half an apology over that though, and even if you refer the issue to the respectable ladies and gentlemen in an establishment in the Kisutu area of Dar es Salaam who specialise in teaching ‘gentle-less’ creatures some unforgettable lessons, you won’t get anywhere. Sorry, once more; You will get somewhere; By returning to wherever you would have come from in the first rather than second or third place. Amen! Once upon a recent day in Dar, as opposed to a long time ago in BK or B-kay (romantic abbreviations of my beloved hometown Bukoba), I heard a voice from a certain part of my body which I won’t disclose for fear of reprisals from a fearsome species called “mizimu ya mababu”. It told me to brief it on what the expression ‘pre-man’ means. I said bye-bye to school too long time ago to remember precisely when. On the last day, I was happier than a monkey that had munched half a dozen stolen sweet bananas. So, I have forgotten (and forgivably so) most things I had learnt there. It is most unlikely, then, that I can remember complicated things like what ‘pre-man’ means, just as I wouldn’t give a correct guess as to who would become president after the 2025 presidential election in a country that I am 100 per cent sure you know, and whose name you would shout out either halfasleep or half-awake! Thank God, He created some people who create things that enable even under-intelligent (not foolish) ones like me to discover the right answers for even unnecessarily complicated questions. After consulting a superintelligent facility called Google, which has no surname, but to which I can donate the name “Baba Lao”, I discovered that ‘pre-man’ relates to a manlike creature that lived before the appearance of true human beings; an evolutionary precursor of human. I relayed the information to the mysterious voice, but complained that I was upset, because the definition of ‘pre-man’ was wild and unfair, as it had an inference of an animal, which I wasn’t, and you aren’t (congrats!) I requested it to spare me half an hour or so, within which I would consult the brain hosted by my somewhat medium-sized cabbage-shaped head, to provide a more rational definition of what ‘pre-man’ stands for. Being a truthful person, under the “msema kweli ni mpenzi wa Mungu” (a truthful person is God’s friend) doctrine, I must declare (but not too proudly) that I am not a very intelligent creature; Or, to put it more honestly, somewhat dull. I couldn’t provide the answer independently; I needed an external agent, which, naturally, constituted a few water-resembling drops of something I am embarrassed to reveal, but which, you being far more intelligent than I, ‘am sure you know. I mixed them with half a glass of water, which I sipped liberally, and then, Holy Ghost! I got an answer that I relayed to the voice. It was this: That, a ‘pre-man’ stands for a male human creature who is on the borderline of advanced boyhood and the early stages of full-scale manhood. I told the voice that, during my teens, many of my ‘pre-men’ colleagues had grandiose dreams of becoming, after completing school or college, eminent professionals, and not un-exciting bread winners (is bread really won ?) like houseboys, grass cutters, toilet cleaners, garbage collectors and so-called ‘saidia fundi’ at construction sites. My dream of becoming an architect was frozen, thanks to mathematics boycotting me by over 80 per cent. I became a store keeper at Tafuna Mikate bakery at the section of Dar es Salaam’s outskirts of Chang’ombe called Maduka Mawili. Oh, God; How I miss the loaves of bread that illegally ended into my legal stomach there! I am now a retiree. To kill boredom, I, and a fellow exschoolmate retiree, Elvis Presley Munganyile (forgive me) recently formed a religious outfit grandly styled ‘Kwenda Mbinguni Ni Lazima’ (Going to Heaven Is a Must). He was branded Chief Preacher Munga, and I, his assistant, Deputy Chief Preacher Kaiga. The other day, as we were conducting the inaugural service in a jam-packed open-air ground, a swarm of bees that not even Tanzania’s best arithmetician could count, invaded the venue, creating a situation that was a mild form of the end of the world. For understandable but not entirely forgivable reasons, the Chief Preacher and his secondin-command have done what is known as ‘kuingia mitini’, pending resurfacing when, or if, God willing, things cool down. wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633