DEPUTY Minister for Transport and Communications, Engineer Atashasta Nditiye has urged residents to protect telecommunications infrastructure situated set up in their areas of stay to strengthen communication services in the country. Mr Nditiye made the call on Wednesday during the launch of a telecommunications tower owned by the Tanzania Telecommunications Corporation Limited (TTCL) at Manio Village in Kashashi Ward, Siha District, in Kilimanjaro Region. “Communication services are vital, they are everyone’s right. They also guarantee security and to make communication services sustainable its infrastructure must be protected,” he said adding, protecting the infrastructure was also important due to the fact that the government spent a lot of money and other resources to improve communication services in the country. He commended TTCL for its efforts to improve communication especially in rural areas, a move which he said complimented the government’s efforts to improve communication services in the country. “May I take this opportunity to urge all Tanzanians to ensure they use TTCL services due to the fact that all the revenue it accrues remains in the country and contributes to development processes in other sectors for the benefit of Tanzanians,” he said. TTCL Managing Director, Waziri Kindamba said the launch of the telecommunications tower under the theme, Switching On, Mawasiliano kwa Wote would help improve communication services provided by TTCL in Siha District and other neighbouring areas. “Apart from improving communication services, it will also provide economic opportunities, including that of financial services provided by the company known as T PESA. May I take this opportunity to call upon those interested to be agents of T PESA due to the fact that the commission we provide at TTCL is the best,” he said. Speaking on the occasion, Siha District Administrative Secretary (DAS) Joseph Mabiti said the launch of the telecommunications tower was well timed due to the fact Siha District faced communication challenges in several areas within the district.