AN extended family of 90 people has been forcefully confined for more than seven months in their places of residence by Kacheche villagers in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region, over a land dispute between them and the village administration. The head of the family, Mr Malelemba Malingumu (65), told the ‘Sunday News’ over the weekend that his family members had been forcefully placed in solitude since July last year by the village’s traditional council, an organ that does not legally exist as per the local government’s rules and regulations. “We are leading a difficult life because we seem to be living in detention, including our women, elders and children. Family members are not allowed to move around the village even when in search for their daily requirements,” he said. He said the family members cannot freely access social services including medical treatment or do shopping or draw water from the boreholes located within the village. According to Mr Malingumu, the land dispute ensued after they (family) challenged the decision reached by Chala Ward land tribunal ruled that part of the family’s land be taken by the village government, by appealing to land authorities to the regional level. He said the decision to appeal to higher authorities angered the villagers who resorted to start harassing them. He said his family members possess 400 hectares of land which has been developed. He further explained that in the middle of last month, an irate mob of around 300 people armed with crude weapons invaded his family, threatening to kill them if they refused to vacate the area, causing some family members, mostly women and children, to flee to save their lives. Ms Anna Malingumu, a victim, told the ‘Sunday News’ that they had been banned to draw water from the village as well as buying essential commodities. A cross-section of members of the victimized family including Mr Lameck Malingumu echoed similar sentiments, adding that they felt insecure after being isolated for more than seven months. “It is very sad, as we are not allowed even to buy vouchers for our mobile phones. Our guests are not allowed to visit us. Life has become tough for us. Even children are afraid of going alone to school for fear of being assaulted by irate villagers,” he said, adding: “We have been living like this for more than seven months now .... We are appealing to the government for immediate intervention to save us from the ordeal ..... I came here since 2002 and purchased a portion of land from villagers legally and I have all the requisite documents.” When the ‘Sunday News’ reached Kacheche village chairman, Mr Laufas Kasamia for comment, he admitted to be aware of the conflict and the situation that the family of Mr Malingumu was going through but said the matter was above his ability to solve. On his part the Nkasi District Commissioner Mr Said Matanda admitted knowledge of the issue and had dispatched a task force to investigate the matter.