THE interdependencies between water and energy are commanding increasing attention. Water is used throughout the energy industry for producing fuels, cooling power plants and generating electricity in hydropower plants. Contrariwise, the water system needs energy for collecting, pumping, treating and desalinizing water. However, the synergies between water and energy depend on the availability of water resources. Only with a nexus approach is it possible to maximize opportunities in both systems, increasing energy efficiency in the water sector, using the water system to add flexibility to the power system, extracting more energy from water and reducing the water the footprint of the energy industries. These issues make clear that the use and management of energy and water resources need to be addressed simultaneously, bearing in mind the fundamental difference between energy and water: that energy can be renewable, but water resources are finite. In 2001, the state enacted the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority Act that paved the way for the establishment of EWURA on September 1, 2006, to address the water-energy nexus. The government’s decision-based on the fact that economic growth is a process involving the people, the community and the nation as a whole. It clearly understood that the communities must exploit the existing opportunities to realize their economic growth desires. Figures and studies show that Tanzania is blessed with massive natural resources that include energy and water sources. Ewura was established strategically to oversee and coordinate such social and economic activities in the view to prevent harm but offer social-economic benefits to the general public and generations to come. This an oversight government— entity is directly involved in fostering economic progress by instituting rules and procedure of handling key subsectors, energy and water. Principally for such a state to progress, literally it would need energy and water resources to propel its social, economic and political growth. These resources are in abundant in Tanzania. Natural gas’s proven reserves stood at 57trillion cubic feet in 2016, waterfalls, wind, geothermal, coal, ocean waves, uranium, oil and solar is among the several existing source of energy in the largest East African country. The resources are used to generate power to light households and power industries. A little has been used for motor vehicles but until, June next year the government expects more natural gas refill stations. It also plans the Nyerere Hydroelectric power project to power the ongoing construction of the standard gauge railway. Tanzania is focused to become a middle-income nation by 2025. While this was meant in 2017, about eight years ahead of schedule as per the World Bank calculations, President John Magufuli’s administration believes the figures are not reflective since a large number of the population is still poor. Observers say the poverty level is accelerated with the fact that access to social service is limited to a portion of a population and areas such as hinterlands in the countryside have neither reliable water supply nor electricity. Ewura was thus established to ensure reliable and fair availability of water and energy to speed up such other sectors, agriculture, health, education, transport, and industries. It provides a licence for energy and water production and distribution chain, review charges and pricing imposed by utilities, resolve disputes, maintain professionalism, quality, standards, security, health and environmental risks in the country. The most intricate part is that the same regulator is charged with promoting competency and competition, healthier to the state economy whilst protecting the interest of consumers. It is required to ensure availability of the service to all consumers regardless of their whereabouts, social, economic and political status, age or education differences. While one would be wondering how Ewura works on regulating the natural gas sector, for instance, yet an independent agency—Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) is sorely entranced. Ewura does not engage with the offshore production levels. But it regulates the onshore businesses, processing, distribution, storage and transportation. The authority regulates such natural gas infrastructures, distribution pipes and conducts regular inspections to ensure the health and environmental safety standards are not violated. Before the establishment of Ewura in 2006, Tanzania National Electric Company (Tanesco), Water Supply and Sanitation Authorities (WSSA) and Oil Marketing Companies (OMC) each used to fix own prices and none were at fault. There was no regulatory body. Retail prices of fuel kept skyrocketing, consumers had to dig deeper into their pockets. Immediately after the establishment of the energy and water watchdog agency, consumers got huge reliefs and uncoordinated market prices for both electricity, gas, water and gasoline become a history. Reports suggest that Ewura facilitate other firms, Tanesco, WSSA, OMC to abide by the law, rules and regulations as well as engaging with stakeholders and consumers in resolving challenges. No authority is mandated to hike or lower oil, gas, fuel or electricity price without consultation with Ewura. Each institution has to prescribe the reason for either of the proposed price adjustments but the main judge remains to be Ewura. Cap 414 of the Ewura Act also establishes Ewura Consumer Consultative Council. This is a high decision-making organ that scrutinizes the proposed tariff amendments and suggests a best practice for the implementation of the proposed changes. This process or regulating prices for instance has helped lower the market price for fuel for instance by 30 per cent compared to the time when the country had not established a regulatory authority. Ultimately the consumers and companies become neither the winners nor losers. But the authority had created a fair playing ground to both investors to benefit with the available opportunities. At different intervals, Ewura sit as a jury to resolve disputes facing both investors and consumers. Such decision issued by the regulator is almost similar to a court judgement and all parties involved are required to bind by requirements floated by the authority. One of the most frequently considered questions is on why the authority provides the licence for fuel stations to be constructed adjacent and sometimes near residential areas. But Ewura defends that it has improved standards starting with the petroleum products supplied in the country to security measures at each single fuelling station. Recently, 30 petrol stations were fined for noncompliance to the licence conditions after they decided to build stations without construction approvals as well as disobedience to quality standards. An impromptu inspection found seven petrol stations in Tunduru, Nachingwea, Momba, Rombo, Siha, Ubungo and Kinondoni selling low marker petroleum products. Unmarked fuel creates loopholes for tax evasion. It sabotages the country’s economy and pose serious unfair competition behaviour in the petroleum product business.