THE Kilimanjaro Marathon 202 organizers have sent a strong warning to all participants intending to use fake numbers (imposters) to run in the respective races in a bid to get medals and other prizes. A statement issued by the organizers said such people have been on the rise every other year and their intention is to cheat so they can get medals and other awards at the expense of genuine participants. The Local Race Director, John Bayo said this time round they will pull the cheaters out in the middle of the races and they will do this with the help of police and Garda World security officers. “We are sending a strong warning to all those who intend to do this as it is a serious offence and we will have legal action taken against them,” he said adding that some for example use the 5km numbers to run the 21km race and demand to get medals at the end of the day. He said this malpractice has been happening mostly in the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager sponsored 42 km and Tigo 21 km Half Marathon which offer medals and cash prizes to the winners and finishers. “All participants should note that our timing and monitoring systems powered by the Tigo 4G network are advanced hence we are able to detect imposters therefore we are calling on them to desist from this to avoid problems,” he said. Meanwhile, the number collection exercise took place successfully at the Mlimani City Mall over the weekend with hundreds turning up to collect their numbers for the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager 42km and Tigo 21km races and also registering for the Grand Malt 5km Fun Run. On Tuesday February 25th and 26th the exercise will take place at Kibo Palace Hotel from 2pm-8pm while in Moshi it will be at Keys Hotel on Feb 27 and 28 from 9am-6pm and on February 29 from 9am to 12pm. The race will be held on Sunday March 1, 2020 at the Moshi Cooperatives University and will play host to a IAAF route measured 42km Marathon, a 21km Half Marathon and a 5km Fun run. Other sponsors are Grand Malt, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC, Simba Cement, Unilever and Absa Bank Tanzania.