HIGH Court Advocate Dickson Sanga has filed a landmark constitutional petition to challenge the constitutionality of the law that denies persons facing capital offences involved in murder, treason, terrorism, armed robbery, narcotic drugs and money laundering bail. The highly contested provision is section 148 (5) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). Through Senior Counsel Mbuga Jonathan, the upcoming lawyer, the petitioner, is requesting the High Court to declare the section unconstitutional and violates Article 13 (3) (6)(b) and 15 (1) (2) of the Constitution. He is also seeking for decretory orders against the Attorney General (AG), the respondent, that the trial courts with jurisdiction to deal with any offence should be left to deal with the question of bail upon being properly moved by the parties to the criminal disputes. Advocate Sanga also requests that the High Court be moved to issue such directives as it may deem fit to meet the ends of justice, and the protection of the constitution right of the people. The move by the lawyer comes after the Chief Justice, Prof Ibrahim Juma, proposed all offences should be bailable. Such move also comes after Judge Amir Mruma of the High Court dismissed the respondent’s preliminary objection to the hearing of the petition on grounds that it was incompetent for petitioner’s failure to exhaust other remedies, which were available to him under other Tanzanian laws. The judge was of the view that it was an appropriate and real momentous occasion for the Constitution Court to consider the Constitutionality of section 148 (5) of the CPA in view of Article 13 (6) (b) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. He said the Court would see whether such provision is consonant with the requirement of Article 13 (6) (b) of the Constitution to charge a suspect (taking a person to court before completing investigations against him) and denying him bail (imprisoning him) before he is found guilty of the offence charged. “In the event the Constitution Court finds that the impugned section is unconstitutional, the public outcry of overcrowding of remand prisons may find a permanent solution,” the judge concluded and allowed the court to proceed to examine the merits of the petition in question. A High Court Constitutional Panel composed of Judges, Dr Benhajj Masoud, Seif Kulita and Dr Juliana Masabo, have been appointed by the Principal Judge to determine the petition. They are set to deliver the landmark ruling on the matter on April 29, 2020 after receiving the submissions from the parties. In the petition, the petitioner alleges that section 148 (5) ousts the constitutional jurisdiction of ordinary courts in administering the right to bail of an accused pending trial or appeal, also restricts the police in charge to refuse bail to suspects pending investigation. According to him, in our constitution, personal liberty as jealously guaranteed under Article 15 (1) states that every person has a right to freedom and to live as a free person. “This right to personal liberty is further expounded under Article 13 (6) (b) of the Constitution, whereby an accused or suspect shall not be treated as a guilty person, unless found guilty by competent courts of law or state agencies established by the laws or the person admits the offences charged,” he stated. While article 15 (2) of the Constitution prescribes circumstances under which freedom of an individual might be legally curtailed, the same shall be subject to prescribed procedures under the law. However, he states, in order to safeguard the fundamental rights of accused from arbitrariness of the prosecutorial agencies, Article 13 (3) of Constitution vests powers in courts of law and other legally constituted state agencies to ensure principle of presumption of innocence is jealously guarded.