LESS than a month before for the Kilimanjaro Marathon to take place, participants who have not registered are urged to submit now as they have barely a week to do it. A statement issued by the organisers indicated that registration will be closed on February 16, 2020 or immediately when capacity is reached. In the statement, the local Race Director, John Bayo, advised that numbers will be limited again across all 3 races; 42km full marathon, 21km half marathon and 5km fun run, to ensure the event sticks within the IAAF regulations of a safe capacity. This according to Bayo, will ensure runners enjoy their time out on route without being overcrowded so that the organisers can ensure they get all logistics in terms of the hydration and medical support on route and at the finishing line. “Entries will close at the midnight of February 16th, 2020 or earlier, if capacity is reached,” said Bayo who stressed that there will be no registration after the exercise has been closed. The organisers also reminded runners to ensure they fetch their race numbers in advance of the event, at one of the collection points that will again be hosted at Mlimani City in Dar es Salaam on February 22nd and 23rd while in Arusha it will be at Kibo Palace Hotel on February 25th and 26th and in Moshi it will be at Keys Hotel on February 27th and 28th. The Kilimanjaro Premium lager Brand Manager, Pamela Kikuli called on participants to utilise the remaining time to register to avoid disappointment as the numbers are likely to run out like in the previous years. “The response is overwhelming and there are all indications that the event will be big as she called on Tanzanians to continue training hard in order to win most of the prizes." The Tigo Corporate Communications Manager, Woinde Shisael said Tigopesa has made the registration exercise easy as most Tanzanians have already registered. “We are glad that the Tigo 21km race has become bigger and bigger since we took over sponsorship." Sponsors for this year’s event are Kilimanjaro Premium Lager, TIGO, Grand Malt, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Limited, Simba Cement,Unilever, Barclays Bank while the official suppliers are Kibo Palace Hotel, Keys Hotel, GardaWorld Security, Precision Air and CMC Automobiles. The race will be held on Sunday March 1, 2020 at the Moshi Cooperatives University and will play host to an IAAF route measured 42km Marathon, a 21km Half Marathon and a 5km Fun run