ONLY ample preparation and seriousness of the players would guarantee the national team, Taifa Stars spirit to perform well in the African Nations Championship (CHAN) finals that starts on April 4th this year in Cameroon. It is indeed a serious preparation that will help Taifa Stars overcome the threat of their group D opponents; Zambia, Namibia and Guinea if the country wants to advance to the tournament’s quarterfinal stage. In-depth analysis of our strength or weaknesses of our opponents can’t help us achieve success in Cameroon, because when you have adequate preparation you will be able to face and overcome any threat from any side you face. It is crystal clear that most teams, which succeed must have had ample preparations and in most cases has paid off. If we want to see Taifa Stars go beyond a group stage we should immediately start preparing a team and players and not take much time in judging our opponents by their names because in football, a team you undervalue is the one which may later surprise you. We hope the presence of many continental-level players in our Premier League can help build well our team heading for CHAN. The players to be picked for a mission have seen and played together or against players they are to meet in group D, whose football standard is almost the same with Tanzania. The release of the CHAN groups and Taifa Stars opponents should be also a wakeup call to the team’s Head Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije and the entire technical bench to keenly start selecting quality players, who are ready to fight for their country. The call for the early preparation also involve players as individuals since the opportunities to serve their nation are plenty, hence they must work in every match to appeal to the Head Coach and the technical bench. We end up by calling the government and the football governing body (TFF) to fully commit themselves to the national team, by ensuring they get many friendly games to keep the team in good shape ahead of the Cameroon mission. Delighted and very hopeful to see our team performing well in Cameroon we would like to tell all Tanzanians to support the team and the entire CHAN mission since the success of the team is the country’s success too.