USAID Mission Director in Tanzania, Andy Karas has commended the vital role played by the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance (CHRAGG) in the promotion and protection of human rights and principles of good governance, saying proper implementation of its mandate could facilitate the country’s efforts towards fulfilling its dream of being a middleincome economy by 2025. Mr Karas was speaking during a brief meeting between him and CHRAGG top officials when he visited CHRAGG offices in Dodoma on Thursday. According to him, the role of CHRAGG in the promotion and protection of human rights and good governance is vital. “Human rights violations impede people’s efforts to attain their development. CHRAGG’s role is vital. Your efforts are good...our doors are open for consultation and we will continue exploring opportunities for cooperation with you on good governance,” he said. He noted that USAID was among the investors in Tanzania, saying yearly they invested $350m for implementing projects in various sectors of the economy, including health, education, agriculture and good governance. Mr Karas, who speaks Kiswahili language fluently, explained that USAID investment in Tanzania went in line with the country’s strategic plans to facilitate the country’s attainment of the middle-income economy by 2025. “So, we are here today to share ideas and explore areas where we think we can merge our effort to enhance the promotion and protection of human rights and good governance in the country,” Mr Karas added. However, he insisted that USAID was now the chair of development stakeholders on good governance. “CHRAGG should not hesitate to seek assistance from us,” he insisted. Speaking earlier, CHRAGG chairman retired Judge Mathew Mwaimu briefed Mr Karas on the mandate of CHRAGG, telling him that CHRAGG bestowed dual mandates which were to promote and protect human rights while at the same time to maintain the observance of the principles of good governance in the country