WHEN my brain was relatively young, and therefore belonging to a human creature who was not a full-scale Tanzanian, and therefore not constitutionally entitled to vote in a general, as opposed to a specific election, I had an unfair feeling about animals. I felt that domesticated animals like goats and cows had a hobby of dying when they were relatively young. Oh, no; That isn’t correct. Actually, to be respectful to God, to you as someone I guess is a respectable gentleman, gentle woman, gentle boy or gentle girl, I am religiously obliged to tell you what lawyers call the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth (aka no lies whatsoever). This is that, it isn’t that my brain was incorrect; It was plain IDIOTIC; idiotic in valuable capital as opposed to small, less valuable, almost useless letters. The correct version is that, the animals aren’t in the mood to die at tender age, but instead, it is we, human beings, who pretend to be superior creatures of God. We pretend to suspect that animals enjoy dying, and that by fast-tracking that wish by slaughtering them, and then eating their meat in roast, boiled or barbequed form, we are doing them a gigantic favour. We think that, if they knew our national language, they would grant us a similarly gigantic “Shukran”, the poetically sounding, and presumably sweeter version of “Ahsante sana”. Close your eyes for a while though, and imagine that, as a goat, you are at the Vingunguti yard (not paradise) in Dar es Salaam, where you and your compatriots are chewing twigs that your kind human owner, Gotman Mbuziman, gives you lots of very bitter twigs to chew, but which, being a species known as “mnafiki”, you pretend are sweet. Then, you notice that Mbuziman, whose name is abbreviated as Mbuzi, is chatting with a man called Niko. You don’t pay attention to what they are saying because human conversations are as meaningless to you, as a Mzaramo would consider Greek to be. You and fellow goats see no need of learning Kiswahili, a language with millions of words, which is probably why many human beings are rumour mongers, in order to make use of some of them. You are happy with a language that has only two identical words “Mee-mee”, therefore being in the honourable situation of being rumour mongerless creatures. Then something happens which half-amuses; Quarterconfuses; and quarter-worries you. The two men draw closer, Niko caresses various parts of your body and smiles, setting you wondering what has suddenly lifted up his spirits. A pick-up track draws close, on the back of which you are loaded, and a quarter-smiling man tightly holds a rope to which you are tied. You feel sad to be separated from fellow goats and miss their company, especially the “Meemee” based conversations, inbetween chewing twigs and other (presumably) delicious meals. The pick-up parks in the yard of some compound, you are off-loaded, and shortly thereafter, you are encircled by little creatures who you correctly guess are kids (human versions of child goats) who sing a repetitive one-word song: “Mbuuzii… mbuuzii…mbuuzii…” What happens next is most shocking. A courageous man draws an unusually sharp knife close to your neck; the next thing you recall, while in heaven, is that, you have ceased to become one goat, but are now countless pieces of roast meat known as “ndafu” being excitedly munched by guests at a wedding party. That’s a make-believe scenario, which, if you are a very religious person, may prompt you to swear that you wouldn’t eat “ndafu” till kingdom come, and wouldn’t do so even if it did. Likewise, you would also ban your teeth from committing murder against boiled, preferably peppered parts of an assassinated cow called “kongoro”. My boyhood relationship with goats and cows wasn’t glorious. While guiding cows to grazing fields, I whipped whichever strayed, branded it the Kihaya version of “stupid” and told it to return to the trail, as if, stupid as I was, I thought it got the message. Our grandparents and teachers likened us to animals, in spite of the fact that the latter had four legs while we had only two, and they had something we didn`t have and didn`t wish we did– a tail! A teacher once caught me red-handed munching raw groundnuts that I had “Wilsonised” from the school store. He made me stand on a table and shout the declaration “I won`t behave like a goat again” one hundred times. At a beer-sipping joint recently, an elderly friend, Timo, teasingly referred to a young lady as “mchumba wangu” (my fiancée). She thundered: “Huyu ng`ombe vipi?” (What`s wrong with this cow?). I won’t disclose what happened next, to spare you of a heart attack because the RIP message, which you wouldn’t get round to hearing, anyway, wouldn’t be helpful ! wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633