MINISTER for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, has directed a contractor to complete the expansion of Zuzu Substation on time as stipulated in the contract. He gave the directive on Thursday after inspecting the construction of Zuzu Substation, saying there would be no extension of time and the work should be completed by the end of this month. “Zuzu Substation expansion is key to Dodoma City and to neighbouring regions served by the centre. Therefore, I want it to be completed as agreed,” he said. Moreover, the minister directed Tanesco to ensure close monitoring and supervision so that the project was completed as agreed failure of which legal action would be taken against those who were responsible. He said the government would give extra time to the contractor, KEC International Ltd, and directed to work day and night and increase the number of labour force for the project to be completed on time. “Dodoma’s power demand is increasing. We have to ensure we have sufficient energy for the country and people. Zuzu Substation is expected to generate extra 6 00MW to the current 48MW,” said Dr Kalemani. “We have to keep time and I have rejected a request to extend time and supervisors should not waste their time to endorse it on any ground.” He advised the contractor to use locally produced materials, warning that should they be forced to import some from India they must ensure they are up to standards “Currently, the substation produces 48MW while consumption is 40MW. So, you can see the reserve is not that much to meet the increasing number of economic activities taking into account the government’s decision to relocate to Dodoma. We have to get prepared,” he insisted. The project is undertaken by KEC International Limited since March 2018 and was supposed to be completed by January this year, but during the minister’s tour of the project in November last year, the contractor asked for time extension and was granted until the end of this month. Nevertheless, the contractor assured the minister that they would reschedule their work plan so that they finished the project on time as directed. Dr Kalemani also instructed Tanesco management to ensure that Zuzu Substation had requisite equipment to respond to any emergency.