MOROCCO ended Twiga Stars solo run in the Union of North Africa Football Federation (UNAF) Championship following a 3-2 win over Tanzanian envoys at Al Karama Stadium in Rades, Tunisia on Tuesday Still, despite the loss, Twiga Stars are firmly leading the chase for the UNAF standings with 6 points, 12 goals for while conceding only 5 goals. Morocco are second with 6 points, but they have notched 4 goals while allowing 2 goals behind their net. Algeria are placed third with 3 points, having scored 7 goals while conceding 3 goals. The hosts Tunisia are placed forth with 3 points after playing two games; winning 3-0 against Mauritania while losing 1-0 to Morocco in their opening match. At the bottom of the table are Mauritania who have scored no goal, but have conceded 15 goals. The match between Morocco and Twiga Stars was very thrilling, but Twiga Stars had to rely on Mwanahamisi Omary again to open the team’s goal account. The goal was remarkable as it involved only four key passes to deliver the ball to Mwanahamisi, who outpaced Morocco defenders and fired it home. Mwanahamisi Omary’s goal becomes the earliest goal of the tournament and as well it was her 5th goal in the tournament. After the first goal Tanzania had a very difficult period as Moroccan strikers made Tanzania’s defence busy to the extent of forcing defenders to commit many fouls. In most cases goalie Zubeda Mgunda had to thwart away countless raids. The situation became worse for Tanzania after the defence had number of miscommunications that accidently led Happy Hezron to commit a foul inside the box. The penalty was awarded to Morocco who converted it to make 1-1 until the end of the first half. The draw gave Moroccans more steam and power to attack Twiga Stars. They dominated the midfield while their defence made sure Twiga Stars strikers, especially Mwanahamisi don’t harm them. Twiga Stars could regain the lead in the second half, as Asha Hamza goal was disallowed by the referee saying a team mate had committed a foul before she scored. Few minutes before the break, Morocco scored again, and changed the score board to read 2-1. Morocco seemed to have returned strongly in the second half. Morocco got an open chance and scored but the goal was cancelled as it was an offside. Morocco gained more possession as time marched to edge, scoring their third goal from individual efforts after Moroccan forward managed to chop the ball above the goalkeeper. Tanzania defender, Happy Hezron committed a second bookable foul and the referee rewarded her a red card. Despite losing a player, Twiga Stars fought on and their efforts paid off later when Enekia Kasonga headed home the second goal for Tanzania to make results read 3-2 at the stoppage time.