HAVE you ever heard about the “zero interest loans? I am sure some of you would doubt because where can you get loans at zero interest. But if at all they are available does it need any financial advice from me. Certainly not, because you don’t foresee any risk in availing such loans. Are you right? Probably not, let us explore further! When we say “loans at zero interest” – there must be some catch and thus we need to read between the lines to understand it fully. So here comes an offer where the loan is offered “interest free”. Shouldn’t you jump to take this offer? What is there to be careful about it as the money is coming free? So why am I putting the spanner by cautioning you on interest free loans? How could I not support an offer which is so rare to get in today’s world, where everybody understands the time value of money [including our children]. But there is something more than what meets the eyes. Let us explore and reach to a conclusion before you deliver your verdict on loans at zero interest. Let the first thing be clarified first. What are you getting under this offer? Free Money! Certainly not! It is only the interest which is not levied but the principal loan amount for sure would require to be paid back. In case you have an elementary knowledge of accounting, in your books of accounts such money will be treated as a ‘liability’ and not an asset. Something termed as ‘liability’ will require to be settled in one way or the other. How do you settle your liabilities? Obviously out of your revenue or income! So once you have opted for an interest free loan, you create a liability for an equal amount which has to be paid back out of your future income. Mostly the so called “interest free loans” are extended by shopkeepers who through such offers easily convince you to buy expensive goods. On one side they will sell you at a higher price than what you can get on an upfront cash down payment, on other side your future disposable income will get reduced to the extent of the loan amount. Once people know that you have a regular income, they will be more than willing to lend you money so that you can purchase anything you want now and pay later. Even your employer may invite you for an interest free loan to buy a car, a motorbike or any other luxurious item. If you can’t afford a car with your existing income, how can the same thing now become affordable by getting an interest free loan? But the issue I want to bring out clearly here is not whether you are paying the loan with interest or not. It is also not whether you are able to pay back or not. Fundamentally, it is the issue of living on future income. When you buy now and pay later, you are actually spending your future income, even before you earn it. You can never spend less than you earn when you are using future income to finance current expenditure. This contradicts the very fundamental principle of saving for future expenditure. By opting for an interest free loan, you are clearly doing “just the opposite”. When other wiser people are busy saving for future expenditure that guarantees financial freedom, the foolish are spending their future income now. This makes the whole difference. So it proves the point that I was right in cautioning you on the so called “loans at zero interest”. On the face of it such offers appear very attractive and tempting, but you need to read between the lines. So before you sign on the dotted lines for availing a loan at zero interest, pause for a while and evaluate do you really need it or it is just been offered to you for buying an expensive item at a higher price. Remember, if you want to become rich, you need to continuously work towards enhancing your assets, not the “liabilities” per se and loan of any kind is for sure a liability. Cheers!!!