PREVENTION efforts could avert 153,000 child deaths from pneumonia and other diseases in the country, a report says. According to Johns Hopkins University’s report, scaling up pneumonia treatment and prevention services can save the lives of 61,302 children under the age of five in Tanzania. The report, issued by Unicef Tanzania in Dar es Salaam on Friday, says that prevention services will also create ‘a ripple effect’ that will prevent 92,310 extra child deaths from other major childhood diseases, underscoring a need for integrated health services. Pneumonia is caused by bacteria, viruses or fungi, and leaves children fighting for breath as their lungs fill with pus and fluid. Globally, it is the biggest single killer of children, claiming the lives of 800,000 children last year or 1 child every 39 seconds. Despite considerable progress made by Tanzania, 312 children under-five continue to die in the country every day due to preventable causes, including pneumonia. Although some types of pneumonia can be prevented with vaccines and can be easily treated with low-cost antibiotics if properly diagnosed, tens of millions of children are still unvaccinated, globally, – and one in three children with symptoms do not receive essential medical care. Child deaths from pneumonia are concentrated in the world’s poorest countries and it is the most deprived and marginalised children who suffer the most. “Forecasts show that 149,131 children under the age of five could die from pneumonia between 2020 and 2030 in the United Republic of Tanzania on current trends. Globally, over the next decade deaths are likely to be highest in Nigeria (1.4 million), India (880,000), the Democratic Republic of Congo (350,000) and Ethiopia (280,000),” notes the report. Unicef says that health interventions aim at improving nutrition, providing antibiotics and increasing vaccine coverage, boosting breastfeeding rates – key measures that reduce the risk of children dying from pneumonia – will also prevent millions of child deaths globally from diseases like diarrhoea, measles and sepsis. UNICEF Tanzania Chief of Health Kyaw Aung said Tanzanian children stood a better chance of surviving past their fifth birthday than ever before, adding that the government’s implementation of high-impact health programmes such as routine immunisation and improved management of common childhood illnesses had saved the lives of thousands of children across the country. “However, if we are serious about ending preventable child deaths, we have to address pneumonia. This means not only improving timely detection, prevention and prescribing the right treatment, but also addressing the major causes of pneumonia deaths like malnutrition, lack of access to vaccines and antibiotics and tackling the more difficult challenge of air pollution,” he said. Other causes of pneumonia deaths include malnutrition and lack of access to vaccines and antibiotics. According to the Johns Hopkins modelling, of the total 8.9 million deaths from all causes that could be averted over the next decade, 3.9 million would be the result of greater efforts to reduce levels of malnutrition alone.