PREVENTION and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has launched investigation into alleged embezzlement of a 150m/- being funds issued by a private firm to revive a grape scheme at Chinangali in Chamwino District. PCCB District Chief, Ms Sifa Mwanjara, told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that they are working on audit reports submitted by the registrar of the Tanzania Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC) that specifically reviewed the project. Spread on nearly 1250 hectares, the scheme was established in 2007 with funds from the District Council and CRDB to the tune of 1bn/- and 1.5bn/- respectively and was to benefit some 296 farmers. It had a dam constructed to harvest rainwater, in addition to three boreholes designed to provide a year-round water supply. Unfortunately, according to the remaining farmers the project has turned to become a ‘white elephant’ rendering some of the established irrigation infrastructures to remain idle. A beneficiary, Rehema Hamis said that the district authority had suspended water bills and farmers are unable to foot the bills on their own. “We were given everything and our duty was to just farm, perhaps that was the huge mistake,” she said. However, Godfrey Mnyande, Chamwino District Agricultural Officer admitted that the council provided electricity and inputs to facilitate grape cultivation to its best levels. “This programme was planned to end in 2014 and the authority suggested that at least, each farmer should part with 50/- from every kilo sold to foot electricity and production bills… only for politicians to confuse farmers to reject the plan and demand parting with 30/- as enough,” he pointed out. He said in 2017, the council received financial support amounting to 150m/- from Alko Vintage Company Limited to revive some key infrastructures, adding: “Only for the money to be mismanaged by the managers.” The plan was that once the project resumed it could be able to service the CRDB bank loan, which currently stands at 2.5bn/-. Dodoma Regional Assistant Registrar Augustino Semkuruto explained to the Deputy Minister for Agriculture Hussein Bashe, last week that a thorough audit in the expenditure of 150m/- in financial support from Alko Vintage, only 108m/- was spent wisely.