BELIEVE me, but not on a scale that you believe in God, boredom is a problem. It is not as serious as coronavirus, but you nonetheless must craft creative ways to soften it. Else, it may kill you, and, with no guarantee of going to heaven, you would be in gigantic trouble. A certain voice inside me that was as deep as Manu Dibango’s, recently ordered (not advised) me to circumcise my name, Wilson Kaigarula to Wili Kai, claiming that the formal one is boring. As I was heading towards a place where boredom-tortured people seek salvation on the evening of the other day, which I won’t specify to spare you of boredom. I was stopped by three gents, part of the broader peace-andsecurity maintenance apparatus. The senior-most of them, somewhat as ‘un-fat” (a more respectable version than thin) as I, asked me to mention my name and simultaneously produce my ID. I did so more confidently than the captain of the Jangwani Flood-hit football team would declare that they would reduce their Msimbazi Traffic Noiseharassed rivals to nothingness in their next match, and vice-versa. The officer looked at me in a manner that implied that I had most probably discharged myself from a mental hospital before full recovery. “Don’t play with us,” he said, in a voice far different from the musical type that would induce a baby to sleep deeply enough to travel briefly to heaven and back to earth. He told me that, the name on the ID and the one I uttered were different, and that, therefore, I was using someone else’s ID. I apologised, clarifying the distinction between my official name, and the ‘kishikaji’ version. I sounded as politely as a suspected robber tries to convince a magistrate that he is such a kind and harmless God-loving creature that, he weeps whenever he witnesses parents slapping their naughty children in his residential neighbourhood. On second thoughts, I needn’t have gone that proverbial extra mile, because, after all, the ID bore my snap-shot, and so, for sure, I was who I was. Plus, I doubt whether it is a criminal offence to own more than one name. What followed next was sure miracle, like Manzese Rangers defeating Manchester United in a match. A fast-moving car screeched to a halt, from which a group of people jumped and started running at a speed that would put famous Olympic medalists to absolute shame. Close behind was a police car from which jumped armed law enforcers who chased them. The ones dealing with me both forgot about me, but remembered that joining their colleagues in pursuing runaway robbers was more patriotic than grilling a person having two names. I went to the joint where I would probably link up with someone, or a couple of senior citizens, for chit-chats. Luckily, I bumped into Timo (a romanticised version of Timothy), with whom we hadn’t reconnected for quite some time. He belonged to Mwanza Region whose ladies and gents are super ugali-eating specialists while I am among Kagera Region’s banana-obsessed fanatics, and beans chipped into the bargain. Timo almost laughed himself to death when I reminded him that, my love for beans was so much that I regularly raid my wife’s kitchen and ‘hijack’ beans from the pot while the cooking process is underway and chew them as monkeys chew bananas. We chatted too about his ugali and my banana roots, our respective home dishes on which we grew and climbed the ladder from boyhood to manhood, and to which we will be tied till we kiss this not-so-wonderful world bye-bye and go to no-one knows for certain where. Drinkwise, we love a certain coppercoloured brew which helps to cheer us up and expel problems temporarily from our minds. The two of us also loved milk when we were young. Timo now said that no matter what the gospel according to nutritionists says about the nutritional benefits of milk, it is children’s stuff that is embarrassing for an adult to drink. I share the theory half-way, drinking the blessed drink occasionally when I am tortured by terrible hangovers that make me feel like someone is repairing a bulldozer engine in my head. At some stage, something known as “machale kunicheza” (a premonition) seized me. I told Timo that I was retreating to the (...fill in the gap) to release part of the beer I had drank. It was a lie of supersonic proportions. I stood from a vantage point, to watch the goings-on. A group of apparent plainclothes police officers encircled by Timo. He shouted out my name, prompting me to vanished as rapidly as smoke does. I later established that he was a suspected rapist and had wanted me to bail him out. A friend in need is a friend indeed, sure, but not in all circumstances! wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633