SIX people, including Customs Officers with Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Friday charged with several counts, including money laundering and obtaining 57m/-by false pretences. They were Edgan Foluba (40) and Elizabeth Mbailwa (53), both Customs Officers, Seleman Lusonzo (30), a police officer, Victor Gama (40), a driver and two businessmen, Mohamed Mlingo, alias Zungu (27) and Mrisho Kamba (29). Other charges against them include leading organized crime, personating as public officers and abuse of position. They were not allowed to enter plea to the charges before Senior Resident Magistrate Rashid Chaungu because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The case was adjourned to February 13, 2020 for mention, as investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution led by Senior State Attorney Mkunde Mshanga as well as State Attorney, Gloria Mwanda, have not been completed. It is alleged that at an unknown time and place within the City of Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, all accused persons willfully organized, managed, financed and supervised a criminal racket by dealing in obtaining money by false pretences of 57m/- with intent to reap profit or other benefits. The prosecution told the court that on January 2, 2020 at Upanga area in Ilala District in the city, with intent to defraud, all accused persons obtained the money from Harubu Abdallah by falsely pretending that the sum was illegally changed and should be taken to the Regional Commissioner (RC). It was alleged that on the same date and place in Dar es Salaam, Mlingo and Kamba falsely represented themselves as public officers for TRA and the Tanzania Intelligence and Security Service (TISS), the fact they knew to be false. On the same day and place in the city, being persons employed by the government, Foluba, Mbailwa and Lusonzo obtained the money pretending that the amount should be taken to the RC for the same was illegally changed in order to obtain an undue advantage. The prosecution charged all accused with money laundering in that within the same period in the city, with intent to defraud, they obtained the 57m/-from Abdallah, while knowing or ought to know at the time of receipt the money was proceed of predicate offence of obtaining money by false pretences.