THE Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) has described President John Pombe Magufuli’s four years work performance as exemplary and achieved to change the mindset of executives and officials in public sector in readiness towards building medium size and industrial base economy by 2025. Speaking shortly after inauguration of Songwe Investment Forum and its Investment Guide Book on Sunday, the TPSF outgoing Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Simbeye said the private sector has confidence in President Magufuli’s leadership style. “We (private sector) are confident in his leadership style which has helped to shape the work performance of the entire public sector. The mindset of public executives toward private sector has abruptly changed and now we are on same page,” Mr Simbeye said. He said President Magufuli’s commitment to see the private sector grow and make a significant contribution on the economy has now been translated into action where more measures have been taken to create conducive business environment. According to TPSF boss, the private sector can stand tall congratulating the fifth phase government for being firm in transforming the economy. Some of stern measures taken have yielded positive results in economic growth. “We have been working very closely with the public sector and its tone when discussing serious issues on economy has also changed. We meet, discuss and reach consensus,” Mr Simbeye explained, encouraging investors to exploit business and investment opportunities available in Songwe Region. He said the head of state fought fiercely against corruption and bureaucracy which were frustrating growth and development of the country’s economy. He said the war against the said vices needed everyone’s support. He also did not hesitate to commend the Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office tasked for Investment Portfolio, Ms Angellah Kairuki for working closely with the private sector, saying that she was always behind the sector’s growth. “We are proud of her commitment to private sector and since she was appointed to that post, Minister Kairuki has been meeting representatives of investors traders and listen their challenges and look for permanent solutions,” he said. Earlier, in her speech to inaugurate the Songwe Investment Forum, Minister Kairuki said the private sector played a key role in preparation of the forum and called on local investors to venture into investment and business opportunities in the region. Ms Kairuki who represented Premier Majaliwa described the forum as stimulus towards attracting more investors to go and invest into different sectors of economy in Songwe Region. “This Investment Guide for Songwe Region which I have launched it today (Sunday) should be used to promote investment opportunities in the region and those regions yet to prepare their investment guideline books borrow a leaf from Songwe as directed by Prime Minister Majaliwa,” she said. She said the government would continue to create conducive environment that will stimulate business growth and attract more capital inflow in Tanzania for the betterment of the country and all its people. “The Investment Act of 1996 will soon be reviewed to protect and attract more investments which are of paramount significance in transforming the country’s economic growth and development,” Minster Kairuki said.