A Thai soldier has gone on a gun rampage inside a shopping mall, killing at least 17 people and taking a dozen hostages while live-streaming the mass murder on Facebook and posing for selfies. Sergeant Major Jakapanth Thomma shot his commanding officer along with two other soldiers at his base before tearing away in a jeep, according to the Bangkok Post. As he drove towards the Terminal 21 shopping mall in Korat, a city 155 miles northeast of Bangkok, Thomma opened fire on civilians along the road. Reports say the frenzied soldier also sprayed bullets at a Buddhist temple en route to the mall, where he is believed to be holed up with hostages as police close in. The gunman posted photos of himself online dressed in full tactical gear and holding a rifle which he smuggled from the army compound's arsenal. Thomma also wrote several posts on his Facebook page including 'should I surrender' and 'no one can escape death'. In one Facebook video - since deleted - the assailant filmed from an open jeep saying, 'I'm tired... I can't pull my finger anymore' and making a trigger symbol with his hand. Thomma also posted a picture of a revolver with the caption: 'It is time to get excited.' The shooter remained close to the shopping mall and had not yet been apprehended, the police said. Local media showed footage of the soldier getting out of a car in front of a shopping mall and firing a series of shots, sending people running. Gunshots could be heard on the video. There were '17 deaths, 14 wounded,' said an unnamed official from Bangkok's Erawan Center - the dispatch centre for the nationwide emergency services who collate hospital information. 'We don't know why he did this. It appears he went mad,' said defence ministry spokesman Kongcheep Tantrawanit. The shooter had initially gone to a house in the city and shot two people dead, before going to the weapons store on an army base and taking a new gun, local police said. One video from a bystander showed a man slumped at the wheel of a car in a pool of blood. It was unclear if he was among the dead. A woman interviewed by Thailand's Channel One television said she had heard gunshots when she was at the shopping mall and hid in a clothing store with other people before escaping. Police advised citizens to stay indoors. The man who was identified by police as the suspect had posted on his Facebook page earlier in the day that 'Death is inevitable for everyone.' He also posted a picture of what appeared to be his hand holding a gun. 'The gunman used a machine gun and shot innocent victims resulting in many injured and dead,' a police spokesperson said, with local media reporting as many as 12 fatalities. 'I cannot confirm the death toll right now, police sealed off the area.' A police officer said the soldier had been involved in an argument about a land deal and shot two people who were involved, another soldier and a woman. He said a third person was wounded. The man then took a gun from the base where he is stationed outside the city and drove to the mall, shooting at people along the way. The mall was shut down and the street outside was closed while authorities attempted to arrest the gunman. A police spokesman added that several people had been wounded in the rampage Video and photos circulating online showed panicked scenes, with people fleeing and what appeared to be the sound of automatic gunfire filling the air. Police in the province said they have sealed off a Terminal 21 shopping mall but have yet to capture the gunman. Thailand has one of the highest rates of gun ownership in the world but mass shootings by soldiers targeting civilians are rare. Several shootings at courthouses late last year also renewed concern about gun violence in the Southeast Asia country. In one high-profile case, two lawyers were shot dead by a clerk at a court in the east of the country during a hearing over a land dispute. 'A 2km radius around Terminal 21 in Khorat city has been put in lockdown after a soldier went on a shooting rampage. Local media are reporting multiple deaths,' said a British expat on Twitter. 'This is ongoing.