PUMA Energy Tanzania, one of the largest oil market companies in the country, eyes to expand its market share by focusing much on the retail business. The firm, that acquired 50 per cent of BP Tanzania almost a decade ago, has almost 60 filling stations country wide and a leading jet-fuel supplier in the land. The remaining 50 per cent is owned by the government. Puma’s Managing Director Dominic Dhanah said that apart from having a big market share in the country, they are proud of their best services. “Among our expectations is to grow in retail business. We want to open up more fuel stations to easy reach more customers,” Mr Dhanah said over the weekend at a colourful event to award its best performing dealers and pump attendants. Energy Minister Medard Kalemani graced the event which was held in Dar es Salaam and presented the awards to the dealers. The company organised the ceremony to honour their fuel dealers, who ensure that their clients in the country are served in a professional manner. The aim was to motivate and challenge its dealers to provide their better services to the customers throughout the year. According to Mr Dhanah, Puma Energies currently has 56 dealers operating countrywide. He promised that the company to continue working hard to ensure that it increases dividends to its shareholders. The government is majority shareholder of the company, owning 50 per cent of shares. Speaking shortly before handing over the awards, Dr Kalemani thanked the Puma Energy Tanzania for increasing dividend from 8bn/- in 2018 to 11bn/- last year. “I urge you to increase more efforts so as to reach 13bn/- increase in the dividend that will help the government increase revenues,” he emphasized. Puma Energies Chairman, Dr Selemani Majige assured the minister that the board and management received all recommendations and instructions issued by him and would work very hard to make sure the performance of the company improves to enable it contribute more into the government’s treasury through taxes and dividends.