THE Tanzanian business community will benefit from the East African Business and Investment forum which brings more than 50 companies from the Nordic countries early next month. The forum, which has been organised by the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) and the Swedish East African Chamber of Commerce (SWEACC), will be held in Dar es Salaam on March 12 and 13. TCCIA president Paul Koyi said on Friday that the forum would enable participants to know how to convert available opportunities into investments that would bring positive change in the country. “Topics will include turning waste into energy, water and sanitation as well as green transport. This is because our counterparts are well advanced in these areas,” he said. According to him, the aim is to promote successful investments and trade opportunities in green and sustainable technologies for better livelihoods as done in Sweden. “Sweden has a strong business sector capable of offering not only financially sustainable solutions, but also capacity building within the area. So, the business community will benefit more from their experience and skills that will be shared,” he added, encouraging businesspeople to register for the forum. Speaking on behalf of the government, a facilitation specialist from the Prime Minister’s Office (Investments), Dr Jumanne Gomera, said the forum would not only benefit participants, but also the country at large. He was of a view that since the forum would bring together participants from more than eight countries, chances were high for coming up with new investment opportunities that would have an impact on individuals and the country. “It’s a good opportunity for our businesspeople and investors to meet and discuss issues together. The government is supportive of this initiative and it will continue working with TCCIA on boosting investments,” he assured. Participants in the forum are Swedish and companies from East African Community (EAC) that offer or are interested in sustainable business, government representatives, EAC embassies accredited to Sweden, trade organisations, business enterprises and investors from EAC as well as business councils.