THE business environment at district and regional levels will improve when resolutions made by respective councils will be implemented. This was said recently by Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled) Jenista Mhagama during her tour of projects financed by the Danish Embassy through the Local Investment Climate Project (LIC) in Dodoma Region. The embassy financed the projects at the request of the Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC). The minister said: “We must ensure the resolutions we make in our respective district and regional business councils are effectively implemented. Implementation of those resolutions will reward us two things: the importance and value of public-private dialogue will be appreciated and the environment for doing business in the country will drastically improve.” She said the LIC-funded projects aimed at empowering economically poor people in Dodoma Region, calling on people and institutions involved in the implementation of the projects to play their part. The minister said TNBC was doing a good job by encouraging regular meetings of district and regional councils so that it could address challenges and adopt solutions right in districts and regions. Challenges and problems not dealt with at those levels will be referred to the secretariat of TNBC for review by the national council chaired by the President. She said there had been complaints that officials in district councils did not attend business council meetings. She explained that it should be clear to everyone that deliberations of the district business council were of great importance for businesses in districts, regions and the entire country, adding that the deliberations were also of significant importance in helping the nation achieve its mission of making Tanzania a middle-income and industrial economy by 2025. TNBC Executive Secretary, Dr Godwill Wanga, promised that TNBC would ensure meetings of district and regional business council were held according to schedule with the cooperation of district and regional government offices. He said schedules for meetings at district, regional and national levels were being formulated to facilitate follow-ups on decisions and resolutions made at all three levels. “The aim behind the move,” he said, “was to ensure that when the national council meets it will be told the successes made in districts and regions as a result of public-private dialogue and how challenges and problems were dealt with.”