GENERAL Electric (NYSE: GE) and the Africa Leadership University (ALU) have kick-started the 3rd cohort of the Africa Industrial Internet Programme (AIIP), aimed at equipping young Africans with skills that will enable them to take part in the fourth industrial revolution. The 2020 cohort has enrolled 35 students from eight countries across Africa, drawn from Oil & gas, transportation, power, energy, manufacturing, healthcare, telecoms and aviation industries. Over the last two years, the rigorous training programme has graduated 64 students, of which 50 were fully sponsored by GE from a scholarship fund totalling US Dollars 500,000. GE will give 10 full scholarships for the current cohort. Launched in 2018, the programme has empowered participants with essential skills for building applications for the Industrial Internet, which enables machineto-machine communication that results in systems that can collect, analyze and deliver data in real-time. These features provide significant benefits such as predicting when a device will require maintenance, enhancing logistics management, enhancing quality and optimizing safety. The training takes place at a time when spending on the Internet of Things is predicted to reach a trillion US dollars by 2002 , with the total number of connected devices being projected to rise to 75.44 billion worldwide by 2025, a fivefold increase in ten years. Commenting on the Programme, Farid Fezoua, President and Chief Executive Officer for GE Africa said, “As a digital industrial company, it’s exciting to see how over the last two years the AIIP has developed an ecosystem of digital engineers that utilise data science as an enabler for their work across industries, developing solutions for the most pressing challenges. Our partnership with ALU for the AIIP is a testament of our commitment to develop the next generation of leaders that will drive solutions made in Africa for Africa in this transformative digital age.” The AIIP is designed using a project-based approach where participants get to apply their learning in real world contexts. The Programme includes regular assessments in each module culminating with a final project where participants are tasked with applying their learning to solve an existing problem either in their business or in a partner organization’s business operations. This is achieved through modules in machine learning and big data analytics, Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and Cloud-based Application Development. A unique aspect of the Programme is a deliberate focus on creating links to industry for participants by inviting industry experts to intensives to share case studies, projects of interest, trends and opportunities, through industry field visits and mentorship opportunities with data science professionals. “African Leadership Group is thrilled to be partnering with GE to build a new generation of digital leaders for Africa” said Fred Swaniker, Founder of African Leadership Group, which includes African Leadership Academy, African Leadership University, and ALX. “We share GE’s passion for data, and what it can bring to the African continent and the world. The Programme enables midcareer engineers to build new skills in data analytics, data science, data engineering and data visualization. By leveraging the power of data, today’s engineers can significantly improve the performance of high-tech industrial machinery and processes, thereby increasing the bottom line for companies. The Africa Industrial Internet Programme is creating globally competitive, digital engineers right here in Africa, and we can’t wait to see their full impact on the continent.” In 2019 five female candidates from Kenya, South Africa and Nigeria received the Jay Ireland Africa Rising Scholarship for women in tech in honour of GE Africa’s former CEO, Jay Ireland. Speaking about her experience with the programme, Funmi Somoye, a 2019 cohort graduate from Nigeria, said, “More than Machine Learning and Data Science, I have learned more about myself and what I am capable of doing. I can’t wait to change the world! Rose Funja, a 2019 cohort graduate from Tanzania said, “I like the linking of the theory to practice, every intensive meet up had professionals who advised us and shared interesting use cases.” Gachanja Muigai, another 2019 cohort from Kenya GE, said “AIIP was a unique eye opener and highly beneficial programme to me considering my Engineering Background. Through it I acquired formidable and versatile skills in the areas of Data Analytics, Machine Learning, Application Development and Artificial Intelligence. It is indeed rare to find a programme that encompasses so many practical & digital skills & even harder when you add a dedicated, passionate Faculty. Finally my fellow students were a great addition to the programme giving it a truly Pan African and Global outlook.” ALU is pioneering a fresh approach to higher education in the 21st century; offering accredited undergraduate, postgraduate and executive education Programme in a unique and imaginative way. By integrating students’ learning with the real world, empowering students to take ownership of their own learning, equipping each student to think entrepreneurially, and employing the most engaging and inspiring teaching methods, ALU is pioneering a new take on higher education and leadership development on www. alueducation.com. GE drives the world forward by tackling its biggest challenges: Energy, health, transportation—the essentials of modern life. By combining world class engineering with software and analytics, GE helps the world work more efficiently, reliably and safely. For more than 125 years, GE has invented the future of industry and today it leads new paradigms in additive manufacturing, materials science and data analytics. GE people are global, diverse and dedicated, operating with the highest integrity and passion to fulfill GE’s mission and deliver for our customers.