TECHNOLOGICAL advances continue to have an evergreater impact on our daily lives. One area that is exciting many people is the potential of artificial intelligence (AI) and big data. They promise to transform our lives fundamentally. In times of growing development and humanitarian needs, innovative approaches and new technologies offer the United Nations an opportunity to unlock solutions with the potential to create extraordinary, life-changing impact for millions of people. Human beings need to learn more about the kinds of models, supports and resources required to build real partnerships between diverse actors that focus on the needs of countries and communities delivering the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). That’s the kind of transformation and integrated thinking required of the 2030 Agenda and that’s what the international community aims to build with the Innovation Sprint. This was perhaps the key message underscored at the UN Innovation Night held in Dar es Salaam on January 23. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development puts forward a broad and ambitious agenda for global action on sustainable development. The scale and ambition of the SDGs require innovation in development and innovation for development. To achieve the Goals by 2030, new modalities for development are required, including bringing innovation into the foreground of development projects. Innovation, understood as new forms of social practice and organisation, as well as new or improved technological products and processes, is not only an explicit focus of Goal 9 (build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation) but also a key enabler of most – if not all – of the Goals. For example, science, technology and innovation will play an essential role in achieving Goal 2 (end hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture). The ambitious nature of the 2030 Agenda – aimed at, among others, ending poverty and reducing inequality in all its forms everywhere, to promote inclusive and sustainable consumption and production systems, to provide full and productive employment and decent work for all– will require fundamental changes in the ways in which energy, food, water, housing, welfare, mobility and other goods and services are delivered, distributed and consumed. Harnessing the positive potential for innovation to address the Sustainable Development Goals will also mean recognizing that some forms of contemporary innovation also contribute to environmental degradation, are disruptive of livelihoods and exacerbate inequalities. The key questions concern not how to encourage more innovation in more places, but which kinds of innovation need to be encouraged while at the same time discouraging harmful innovation. Until the late 1980s, innovation was widely conceived as the commercialization of scientific discovery, mainly by large corporations that had the capabilities to exploit new knowledge. Experts says this linear conceptualization of innovation (from science to research and development to commercialization) has since given way to a more sophisticated innovation systems model, developed within a normative framework focused on supporting national or regional competitiveness. Innovation is now recognized as mostly incremental – based on processes of adjustment to existing technologies, rather than on considerable novelty alone – and is therefore recognized as involving practices and techniques that are new to a country or firm, as well as new to the world. At the colourful Dar es Salaam UN Innovation Night the UN Resident Coordinator and WFP Representative Michael Dunford explained in clear-cut terms the importance of innovation in this 21st century. “Business as usual will not help us achieve the SDGs - we need to be innovative, forward thinking and not afraid to try new things,” he told his audience. New ways of thinking and a culture that enables innovation and experimentation are critical to bringing new approaches to the work of the United Nations. To facilitate this culture change, many UN agencies have established dedicated teams to promote innovation at the global as well as local level, he said. The Dar es Salaam UN Innovation Night brought together UN and other key actors in the Tanzania innovation ecosystem to exchange ideas, learn from each other and establish new connections. The night also marked the end of an eight-week Tanzania Innovation Safari, which was designed to build innovation capacities through handson training and partnership development. The Safari was conducted by the UN in Tanzania under the leadership of the WFP Innovation Hub and UN Innovation Network. Through the Innovation Safari, thirty staff from 11 UN agencies learnt and applied well-defined innovation methodologies to problems such as “How might we better communicate with our beneficiaries?” and “How might we establish sustainable energy solutions for people living in refugee camps?” During the UN innovation Night, the teams presented their ideas to an audience of government representatives, development partners and the private sector. “Commitment to collaboration is critical to leverage new technologies and innovative thinking and to keep the UN at the forefront of some of the biggest challenges facing the world today,” said Dunford. Building on the lessons learnt from the Tanzania Innovation Safari, the UN Innovation Network is looking to expand this new localised approach to hands-on capacity building in other countries where the UN has a presence. The UN, WFP Innovation Hub Tanzania and the UN Innovation Network (UNIN) showcased the world body’s innovative work in the country and its commitment to use innovative approaches to advance progress towards the SDGs. The UN System in Tanzania comprises 23 UN Entities, who work closely with the government and other stakeholders to support the achievement of national development priorities and of the Sustainable Development Goals. Under the coordination and leadership of the UN Resident Coordinator, UN agencies work in close collaboration to enhance the coherence, efficiency and effectiveness of the UN’s impact in Tanzania with an emphasis on leaving no one behind. The UN Food Programme, which saves lives in emergencies and changes lives for millions through sustainable development, works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future. The WFP Innovation Hub in Tanzania is designed to identify, pilot and scale innovations for Zero Hunger in Tanzania and make WFP’s field logistics and IT expertise available to partners in the region. The UN Innovation Network (UNIN) is an informal, collaborative community of UN innovators interested in sharing their expertise and experience with others to promote and advance innovation within the UN System. It is open to innovators from all UN Agencies as well as external partners and to date, representatives from 65+ entities in over 100 countries have joined the Network.