It involves a husband/father and wife/mother teamwork to raise a child throughout unless parted by death of one or both of those two. Many people argue that death of a parent creates a unique emotional and universal human experience, as it is “grief-filled and traumatic and informs or changes children biologically and psychologically,” says an American Author, Joshua Krisch. Right within our surrounding, many of us are witnesses of individuals, government and even NGOs taking responsibilities and the burden of treating or mending the scars caused by such departure of one or both parents. “I can confess that my activism today has so much to do with such past experiences too!” Says Ms JACQUELINE FARADY WAYA, Director of Programs Outreach - Gender Action Tanzania. Jacque, as they commonly call her, lost her father at the age of four years; “I don’t remember much, however the tough time and hustles my mother used to experience while raising the two of us (my younger sister who was 3 years old by then and I, aged 4 by then), are still unforgettable and very much vivid right at the bottom of my memories.” Jacque, is a Co-founder and Director of Program Outreach, managing and coordinating implementation of programs at the Gender Action Tanzania (GATA), a Non- Governmental Organization with the mission of promoting equitable society, where women and men enjoy their human rights by combating gender-based violence and discrimination through advocacy, household economic strengthening, legal, aid and research in the country. Jacque was born (almost four decades ago) and raised at Mkuu Rombo Moshi Kilimanjaro. “My mama, Edith Meela Waya was working as an Agricultural Officer and my late Baba, F a r a d y Waya was a Cooperative Officer.” Mr and Mrs Waya were blessed with two children (Jacque and her younger sister Aneth). Soon after the death of her father at the early period of building their family, the young Jacque did witness the common aftermath of fate and family dispute. “Fortunately, my tough, hardworking and courageous mama was strong enough to singlehandedly encounter the situation and successfully raise me and my younger sister accordingly.” The young Jacque started her formal education at Huruma Primary School, then she joined Mkuu Secondary School for her O-level education before finalizing her A-level education at Kibosho Girls Secondary School. After her high school graduation, Jacque joined the Mzumbe University in Morogoro for her Bachelor of Laws (LLB) studies and graduated in 2008. A couple of years later, she attained a Post Graduate Certificate (on Gender, Law, Human Rights and HIV/AIDS) from the Makerere University in Uganda. By the year 2013, once again Jacque went back to Mzumbe University (Dar-esSalaam Campus) to graduate for a Degree of Master of Science in Human Resources Management (MSc HRM). Also, by 2018 Jacque undertook a Post Graduate Diploma on Development Leadership at the St Francis Xavier University in Canada. Whilethere , Jacque attended some additional lectures at the Coady International Institute, named after a Canadian priest, adult educator and cooperative entrepreneur of the last century (Rev. Dr Moses Coady). Among his thoughts were; “If we are wise, we will help the people everywhere to get the good and abundant life to become masters of their destiny!” Jacque used the opportunity to acquire some practical knowledge too. A helpful aspect towards transforming her perceptions and community approaches on development work; “imagine, a person with cerebral palsy taught me the art of rugmaking, the knowledge I ‘m now passing on to other women in Tanzania, to help them generate income from their newly learned skills!” For almost a decade, from 2009 to 2017, Jacque worked at the Women in Law and Development in Africa – WiLDAF. “There, I was a Program Officer for Advocacy, Policy and Law Reform.” Additionally, throughout the years, Jacque has already done several consultancies, including; (1) Final Evaluation of Strategic Plan; teaming up with an international consultant in the evaluation of the Zanzibar Legal Service Centre. – 2015. (3) Evaluation of the effectiveness, efficiency in Trafficking in Person-Criminal Justice Training by the US State Department – 2019 Jacque’s affiliation stretches as far as being a = member of Tanzania Women Lawyers Association – Tanzania. = Child Protection Team/ GBV/VAC Ministry of Health, Community Development Gender Elderly and Children -National Facilitator -Tanzania = Women in Law and Development in Africa - Tanzania = GBV Prevention Network - Uganda = AWD (Association for Women’s Rights in Development - USA. = Rise with Hope – Tanzania etc. So far, Jacque who is married “blessed with two precious babies just like my back-ground of being in a family of two children,” has already accumulated over 12 years’ experience in addressing child rights protection, women rights, youth advocacy programs and campaign from different aspects. “I am doing these with the expertise in Asset Based Citizen-led Development (ABCD) to engage and influence (inclusive) community-led programs through various methodologies.” Yes, this lady who is also a wife, mother, Lawyer, development specialist and a social entrepreneur JACQUELINE FARADY WAYA is one of those role models in her way! Truly, she is worthy to be illustrated.! David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com