CHINESE Embassy in Tanzania and China Cultural Centre in collaboration with Tanzania Wushu Kung-Fu Association (TWA) have taken step forward in a bid to prepare strong national Under 17 team for 2022 Youth Olympics. Among the measure taken is to unveil three coaches, who will prepare the team that will represent Tanzania at the Youth Olympics to be held in Dakar, Senegal in two years to come. This is a bid to ensure Tanzania excel at the 2024 Summer Olympics0 after Wushu, a Chinese martial art was added to the Olympic programme. TWA Chairman, Mwarami Mitete named the three coaches in Dar es Salaam yesterday as Hu Jinchao, Liu Shaojie and Zhu Guangyao, who will also work closely with association’s Chief Advisor Fu Guo Dong all from China and Doctor Deus Kubagwa, who were also unveiled yesterday. Mitete also said that the association sponsors including Fastlink Safaris & Tours, FAMM (AMTL) Co. Ltd and GTM Industrial Investment co. Limited who will also step in to support. Mitete extend his regards to Chinese Embassy in Tanzania and China Cultural Centre for their tireless support towards the development of the sport. “I take this opportunity to thank the Embassy of China, the China Cultural Centre and also Ministry of Information, Cultural, Arts and Sports and National Sports Council (NSC) for their everlasting support,” he said. Mitete added: “I extend my regards to sponsors also because it is always not easy for sport like wushu to attract sponsors in Tanzania…these are local companies and it encourages us to work even harder and we will motivate players to perform to their utmost. “We still need support and the door is open for others to join and assists our development programmes. They are also welcomed to facilitate national team’s training and participation at international level events.” Fastlink Sales and Marketing Executive, Abdallah Kitete thanked TWA for giving them chance to be part of development plans, while GTM representative Ramadhani Mshana also lauded TWA and issued a plea for others to join them. “We are not that big company, but we saw TWA mission, we have been following them from early stage and see the need to support,” added Kitete. FAMM (AMTL) Chairman Felix Chengula said that the sport has big potential to propel local youth and they will support to ensure the dream comes true. Chief advisor Dong noted that Tanzania has talented and remained optimistic that the country will excel at international arena. “With talented youths the country has and modern facilities at Black-panther Kung-fu Club of Dar es Salaam where we will train team, then we are sure of doing well in future. We will work hard to achieve that, but will need cooperation from all stakeholders,” he said.