PAUL Manyanda Memorial Pro-10 Cricket League continues today with two matches on card to be played at the Annadil Burhani ground in Dar es Salaam. The first match will pit Annadil Burhani and Lions CC in a Division B clash, while Strikers will face K&P Constructions. The league started on February 1st this year, in honour of a fallen Umpire Paul Manyanda. The late Manyanda, who was renowned cricket youth trainer and umpire died in Dar es Salaam late last month after battling with long illness. According to the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) Communication Officer, Atif Salim the league is progressing well and teams are showing great deal of competitiveness. Annadil Burhani, who are placed second of the log with eight points from five matches will be seeking to leapfrog Union Sports Club to the summit of the table if they win against Lions CC today. A win will see them post ten points and go two points clear at the top because union Sports Club who sits top at the moment with eight points from four matches will be on the sidelines until next weekend. Lions CC will also be seeking solace to scale up the ladder with a win against Annadil Burhani today, as they currently sit second bottom with two points from three matches. Strikers versus K&P Construction match will equally be tough as the former will be seeking maximum points to challenge for the top spot as they currently sit fifth on the log with two points from three matches. While the latter are bottom placed without a point after playing four matches. Four more Division B matches will be staged at the same venue tomorrow. The first battle will see Strikers taking on Lion CC, while MCC will confront Union Sports Club. The day will also see Annadil Burhani and Strikers face off while and K&P Constructions will lock horns against Estim. In Division C, Dar Black Panthers will play against Patel Brotherhood, while Annadil Sifee will face Tamil Nadu Sports Club. Patel Brotherhood top Division C with eight points from five matches, while Dar Black Panthers are second on six points from five outings.