THE High Court in Dar es Salaam has given parties in dispute relating to estate administration of the late Mercy Anna Mengi six months within which to file a complete and full inventory and accounts of the deceased’s property. Judge Rose Ebrahim issued the orders after considering an application presented in Court by administrators of the estate of the deceased, in a matter involving administration by Regina Mengi and Abdiel Mengi and deceased Mercy Anna Mengi. “That being said I accordingly accord parties six months to file the inventory and subsequently appear before this Court on June 18, 2020 in respect of Probate Cause No. 74 of 2018 to report on further development of the same,” she declared. During hearing of the application, Counsel for the parties had stated the reasons behind the matter, that there is still the issue of appointment of the administrators of the estate of the late Reginald Mengi, pending before this court. It was stated that such issue has effect of the decreed share of 35 per cent of the late Mercy Anna Mengi. The shares have yet to be transferred to the estate of the late Mercy Mengi, which emanates from the shares of the late Reginald Mengi as decreed during their livelihood in Matrimonial Cause No. 8 of 2015. When determining the matter, the High Court judge considered the prevailing circumstances to ensure the full and true filing of the inventories and accounts of the late Mercy Anna Mengi. “I find that this court is warranted to exercise its discretion and extend time for the proper and full administration of the deceased’s estate,” the judge said. Inventory is a complete list of items such as property, goods in stock, or the contents of a building. As far as administration of estates in general, an estate inventory checklist will include financial assets that belonged to the deceased. The financial information must also include the deceased’s debts, such as credit card bills, student loans, alimony, child support and medical bills. If you are the executor or administrator of someone’s will, your job is to submit the will to the court for probate, if necessary, and to protect the deceased’s property until all debts are paid and the remainder is passed on to the beneficiaries. The rules of probate vary from State to State, so executors and administrators must contact the court in the jurisdiction, where the deceased lived to find the specific rules. If probate is necessary, one may be required to prepare an inventory of the assets in the deceased’s estate and the value of those assets at the time of death. Furthermore, if the deceased owned a house or other real estate, one must locate the deed to the property. The value of the real estate can generally be listed as its most recent assessment for property taxes, or one might need to get a formal appraisal of the value of the property. Locate homeowner insurance records and property tax information. List any mortgage on the property, including the bank holding the mortgage and the amount owed. Recently, Mrs Jacqueline Mengi issued a notice, informing the general public that the probate case no. 39 regarding the estate of her late husband, Dr Reginald Mengi, is still pending and ongoing at the High Court of Tanzania. “This notice is to forewarn any persons, who are engaged in sale, buy or disposal of any asserts under my late husband’s estate that their actions are illegal. All such transactions would be deemed null and void and would be done at your risk,” reads part of the notice. She stated that currently only actions permitted are those related to daily operations of his estate, without major or significant decisions until the letters of probate are issued by the High Court.