THE export windows for the Tanzania’s horticultural crops export are continuing to open thus offering a ray of hope to millions of local farmers. Tanzania Horticultural Association (TAHA) Group Chief Executive Officer, Dr Jacqueline Mkindi who led the Tanzania mission to the just ended Fruit Logistical, the World’s premier fruits and vegetables fair held in German, said the sky is the limit as the global appetite for local fresh produces is on the rise. “We are counting blessings as local producers and exporters have closed a number of lucrative deals with overseas buyers at the Fruit Logistica show”, she said. She noted that international buyers who were keen on quality and volumes, have in particular, fallen in love with Tanzania growing avocados, raspberries, lime and high value vegetables, offering new markets and opportunities for local farmers and exporters. At the Fruit Logistica fair a total of 15 producers and exporters companies represented the country, under the TAHA, where they showcased homegrown avocado, raspberries, lime, French beans, peas, baby carrots, sweet melon, spices and herbs such as ginger, assorted chilies, chives and mint. “Apart from signing several strategic partnerships with global horticulture players for mutual benefits, we have also promoted Tanzania as a land of myriad opportunities for producing and exporting horticulture,” Dr Mkindi said. Buyers were also impressed by the capacity of TAHA Fresh Handling Limited, a local logistic company to handle perishables from Tanzania to various destinations across the world. Indeed, TAHA Fresh is an official member of World Cargo Alliance (WCA) network, a world’s most powerful grouping of independent freight forwarders with more than 6,473 members in 789 cities and ports worldwide. As it stands now, TAHA Fresh is part of the 6,473 freight forwarders who are present in over 190 countries worldwide. TAHA group boss said that the biggest task before her and the country at large is to empower producers to bolster production and quality of fresh produces in a bid to satisfy the international market demands and standards. On this aspect, TAHA has signed a partnership agreement with the Europe-Africa-Caribbean-Pacific Liaison Committee (COLEACP) to bridge skills gap in collaboration with Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST) and World Vegetable Centre. COLEACP is an international network promoting sustainable horticultural trade with particular objective to actively contribute to the sustainable horticultural trade between ACP-countries and the European U nion.