EFFORTS by the government to improve the quality of basic education has gained momentum with the official launching and distribution of quality text books for Standard I to VI. Other books launched yesterday are those with larger prints and braille alphabets meant for Standard I, II and V learners with partial and total blindness. The books for Standard III and IV are already in use in schools. Also in the list of education materials launched yesterday include 46 types of reference books with braille alphabets meant for Secondary School students. Speaking during the event to launch the books and kick start their distribution, Deputy Minister For Education, Science and Technology, William Ole Nasha said the writing and distribution of quality text books and the reference materials under the coordination of Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) is yet another resolve by the government to improve provision of basic education in the country. “You may build education infrastructures and employ teachers but if the content that you impart to learners is not correct then your investment is doomed,” said Mr Ole Nasha. The deputy minister admitted that in recent years basic education suffered as a result of proliferation of poor text and reference books, adding that with the new text books launched “gone are those challenging days.” According to Mr Ole Nasha, the books launched were of good quality as they were written by experts in relevant subjects from a number of institutions, including the Universities under proper coordination of TIE-an institution charged with a number of responsibilities, including curriculum design and development and coordination of writing of text and reference books. “By accomplishing this task the government has responded and will continue to respond to the public outcry with regard to absence of quality books,” he said. Commenting on the books with larger prints and braille alphabets, the Deputy Minister Ole Nasha said the initiative was a proof on how the government was all out to ensure all children acquired quality education in the country. With the availability of new quality text books, the deputy minister warned against the continued use of uncredited text books, especially by English medium primary schools. “English medium schools have been grappling with lack of quality text books for their children. Now this problem is coming to an end. We want them to buy the materials and fully utilise them as their prices are affordable,” he added. However, he welcomed other publishers to publish reference books for use in the education sector provided the materials undergo approval procedures by relevant authorities in the government. TIE’s Acting Director General Dr Aneth Komba said the task to write the text and the reference books launched yesterday was carried out in this financial year, involving experts from various higher learning institutions including the University of Dar es Salaam, University of Dodoma, Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), Jordan University and Marian University. She said currently, TIE in collaboration with experts was working on text books for Standard VI and VII for English medium schools, a task which is expected to be accomplished in the next two months.      