ALLIANCE FC head coach, Fredy Minziro has commended his team’s commitment after their 4 -1 victory over Mwadui FC in the Premier League match at Nyamagana stadium on Wednesday. David Richard who stamped a hat-trick in the 5th, 18th and 83rd minutes, was the match hero assisted by Samir Vincent who scored the third goal in the 80th minute. Mwadui FC netted their consolation goal through Ottu Joseph in the 23rd minute. Speaking during a post-match press briefing, Minziro said he was impressed with the team-work spirit saying the overall performance of his players during the encounter was very good. He congratulated his players for following his instructions, something he said to have led them to the victory. He further urged the football fraternity in Mwanza to unite and support their teams to make them remain in the Premier League. Minziro, who also served JKT Ruvu, Young Africans, Panone and Arusha United Coach, said his team created a lot of chances, but managed to utilize only four of them. Adding, he said his team dominated the game in both halves and he said they still target to win their remaining matches. He further showered praises to his strikers for the good performance and promised to make sure he provides them various scoring techniques so as to score many goals. Alliance FC are now placed at the 12th position after collecting 28 points. On his side, Mwadui FC head coach Khaleed Adam said his defenders’ mistakes led them to concede the big defeat and he added his team played poorly since the beginning of the league. Meanwhile, Alexander Sanga reports that the Assistant Coach of the relegation-threatened Singida United, Zulkifir Mahad said his team’s main focus now is the fight against relegation so as to remain in the top flight league. Speaking after their 3-1 loss to Mbao FC at CCM Kirumba stadium here on Tuesday, Mahad said his team played well but failed to utilize the few chances they created. Mbao FC goals were netted by Mussa Gaby from Wazir Junior assist in the 26th minute, Herbert Lukindo added the second in the 4 5th minute while Jordan John netted the third in the 66th minute. Daudi Mbweni scored the Singida United’s consolation in the 90th minute. He called upon the team’s fans in Singida Region to continue supporting their team in the remaining fifteen matches and they should not give up at all. Mahad said their still have a lot of matches remaining and they can work hard and change the results. Singida United who are glued in the bottom on the league table, have won two, drawn five and lost sixteen matches. They have netted twelve and conceded thirty five goals.