GERMANY has lauded the impressive progress on development projects undertaken by the government, while vowing to maintain strong cooperation with Tanzania in business and investment sectors. German Chancellor’s Personal Representative for Africa in the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, Mr Guentre Nooke, delivered the message when he paid a courtesy call on President John Magufuli at State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday. During their talks, Mr Nooke who was accompanied by Ambassador of Germany to Tanzania Ms Regine Hess, commended Tanzania for making a huge step in  development compared to some years ago when he visited the country. He said the recent economic progress has made the East African nation one of the fastest-growing economies in the world and a preferred partner of his country. President Magufuli assured Germany of total cooperation from Tanzania, insisting his administration is fully determined to enhance the cooperation and the long-standing ties between the two countries. Dr Magufuli, also, invited to the country, businessmen and investors from the Western European country, a move he said would benefit both parts and improve trade volume. On the other hand, President Magufuli yesterday hosted a famous Kenyan scholar and Pan Africanist Prof Patrick Lumumba at the Magogoni State House. For almost one hour, they discussed a number of issues such as refining economies of African countries by using the available resources. The duo also conversed about the role of leaders and citizens towards improving social services and in addressing different challenges facing their countries. Speaking after the meeting, Prof Lumumba showered praises on the Tanzanian Head of State for orchestrating major socio-economic reforms. Issues on the fight of corruption, maintaining discipline among civil servants and embezzlement of public funds weren’t left behind, as the Pan-Africanists suggested that other countries should come and learn from Tanzania. “ African countries should be keen and make bold decisions that will serve their own interest instead of surrendering all to the foreigners while their people remain poor,” he said in a statement issued yesterday in Dar es Salaam. The Kenyan scholar said he was amazed with the President’s ability to explain in detail many of the things that have happened in the last four years of his fifth phase administration. “ What has come out very clearly and what has impressed me is that the President has the pulse of the nation, he knows what is happening, he’s able to state in detail what is happening in Iringa, what is happening in Mwanza, what is happening in Chalinze, what is happening in different sectors,” said Prof Lumumba. He admired President Magufuli’s appreciation of the fact that going forward African can only realise her potential if her men and women are dedicated to do things that are in the best interest of the society. “ As I have said, and I repeat this again, when one is involved in such moving changes there will be nostalgia of people who would not see the beauty and the goodness of what is being done,” said Prof Lumumba. But he argued that history is a fair judge, since it can identify the things that speak for themselves. He said for the administration of President John Magufuli what speaks for him, even if he chooses to remain silent, is the massive achievements recorded during his time. “ The bridges that have been built, they speak for him, it is the health facilities that have been built that speaks for him, it is the increased enrolment of primary school and university that speak for him, it is the increment of the national reserve that speak for him,” he said. “ It is the discipline that now characterises the conduct of government of the Republic U nited of Tanzania that speaks for him, it is the railways that have been built that, it is improvement of the mining sector that speak for him, these things when they speak they speak more eloquently than words,” he added. “ And I am certain that is the direction that we should move, and there is something that should be said about that administration, focus, dedication, vision and that’s what Africa needs,” stressed Prof Lumumba.