NYANZA Cooperative Union (NCU -1984 Limited) plans to spend about 3.6bn/- to renovate cotton ginneries that stopped production due to various challenges including lack of funds and mismanagement. Speaking during the 28th Annual General Meeting, the Acting NCU General Manager Martha Ndetto said that the funds will be spent to renovate two older cotton ginneries of Buyagu and Manawa, enabling the union to earn more money once they start production. She said some 3.08bn/-of the loan was borrowed from TIB bank and 500m/- recovered from NCU properties that had been confiscated by some people. “We are expecting to renovate our two cotton ginneries for use in this farming season and we are very grateful to President John Magufuli because without him all these initiatives would have been impossible,” she said. On his part, the Chairman of the Tanzania Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC) Dr Titus Kamani directed the Acting Cooperative Union Registrar Dr Onesmo Ondiege to communicate immediately with Mwanza regional authority so to that the 500m/- is released to enable renovation of cotton ginneries begin immediately. “I have already communicated with Mwanza Regional Commissioner John Mongella and Registrar of Cooperatives to ensure the funds are released this week to initiate the renovation process,” he said. He said Buyagu and Manawa ginneries have been subjected to extensive scrutiny by the government through its experts, including the cost of renovations and it has been proved that they will operate successful after it. Meanwhile, Dr Kamani called on all NCU and AMCOS managements in Mwanza Region to work hard as an appreciation to government contributions in recovering NCU assets as well as improvement of Cooperatives in the country. “The managements must act in accordance with the rules, regulations and procedures of the Cooperative Act,” he said. He said that in implementing the revival of the industry, the government through the Cooperatives Commission in the country, will coordinate with the corporate recovery management system to enable NCU hire a professional management team that among other functions, is to generate revenues. “Cooperation is not poverty, but a vehicle to get people out of poverty and you have seen the government commitment of reviving it,” he said. Speaking on the same meeting, the Acting Cooperative Union Registrar Dr. Onesmo Ondiege said one of the challenges facing cooperatives societies and AMCOS is the lack of cooperative education that makes some leaders unable to prepare and maintain financial records as a result they end up with qualified audit report.