YOUNG Africans and Azam face a big test against tough First Division League sides; Gwambina FC and Ihefu who play in the two separate venues today. The two games are among the notable Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) fixtures due to the good form of two FDL sides. Yanga, who are hosting Gwambina at the Uhuru stadium in Dar es Salaam, are likely to face a big stiff challenge from the FDL side as they are heavily fortified after changing ownership. Likewise, it won’t be an easy ride for Azam, who are facing tough contenders Ihefu at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya, following the reality the FDL side from the Southern Highlands, is well drilled to face any challenge. To set a date with Azam, ASFC defending champions, Ihefu FC saw off Kasulu Red Star with hefty 3-0 victory. The Mbeya First Division side have been a hard nut to crack as in the last edition they gave a difficult time Yanga after a 1-1 draw and let their game decided by penalty shootouts whereby they lost 4-3. While Azam had an easy ride against Friend Rangers after a 3-1 win at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam . Ahead of their today’s encounter, Gwambina FC Assistant Coach Athuman Bilal ’Bilo’ has warned the former Premier League champions Yanga to expect turbulence in today’s ASFC quarter final at National stadium. Bilal said his players are well drilled for the mission. He said he was confident that his team will win the match at any cost and qualify for the next round. The coach also confirmed that the team’s key players Anthony Matogolo and Pastory Athnas have recovered and will be on pitch today to help their team win today’s crucial match. He further added his team’s attacking and defending systems are foolproof, a situation he says assures him a landslide victory. Gwambina FC played two matches in the ASFC tourney whereby they won 3-0 against Mbeya Kwanza and later went on to post 4-3 win on penalty kick over Premier League side, Ruvu Shooting after a 1-1 draw in the 90 minutes. On his side Gwambina FC right defender Mbarouk Micky said he and team mates will work hard to ensure they advance to the semifinal stage of the Azam Sport Federation Cup. In today’s fixture JKT Tanzania will face Alliance FC and Kagera Sugar are pitted against KMC FC who qualified for quarters after trouncing Pan Africa 5-0 in their previous match. The match between JKT Tanzania, who defeated Tukuyu Stars 1-0 in their last match, will be staged at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. To reach the stage, Alliance FC eliminated Trans Camp with comfortable 3-1 victory.