THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) this week raised a red flag over the standard of refereeing or call it officiating in the on-going Mainland Premier League. The federation particularly noted the recent derby between Young Africans and Simba and spoke of ‘mistakes’ that were committed by the referee in that particular match and warned that such mistakes should not be repeated. While the TFF’s decision to warn referees are commendable, but the move has come too late. Such statements-cumwarning need to be made whenever such problems occur. Bad refereeing or corruption refereeing is not new to Tanzania’s premier league. In fact, the malaise is as old as the league itself and the federation need to put its foot down now. For many years, small clubs in the premier league have complained about referees favouring Simba and Young Africans in matches they should have lost. And, we don’t need to go far to point a match in which either of the two sides were literally assisted by referees to win matches they should have lost. For instance, take the recent Simba versus Namungo match as a case in point. The third goal which was scored by Simba striker Meddie Kagere two minutes before the final whistle was an outright offside! How the referee allowed that goal to stand is nothing but a conjecture. Many small clubs in the premier league believe that there is stinking corruption at play, that some referees tend to give the impression that they have taken something from another team going by the way they officiate matches. Tanzania’s football fraternity need to know that there is nothing as harmful as corruption in football. Winning matches through corruption is the surest way of killing the game. And, referees who are used to lining their pockets in order to help teams win matches cause untold damage both to themselves and the game. As such acts ultimately lead to the downfall of their own careers. Refereeing just like any profession is a very respectable career and for a referee to rise to the level of officiating in continental matches which include those that relate to the Fifa World Cup; A referee need not only to adhere to the 17 Fifa rules, but also to enhance his or her professional and academic standing through reading and attaching soccer courses. Successful referees in the world are those who are not only good at officiating matches, but can also speak, fluently, more than one international language. The question that we now need to ask ourselves is, how many of our referees who are officiating in the premier league can speak, fluently, more than one international language? If our referees cannot handle, comfortably, say English, French or Portuguese or all the three languages, then we should forget seeing a Tanzanian referee officiating even in Afcon and continental clubs tournaments. How can they officiate at such top flight international soccer tournaments when they cannot communicate even in English? Our referees need to take language courses like English or French which are available at the British Council and Alliance Francaise if they want to officiate beyond the premier league. For like professional football, refereeing is a very highly paying job, especially when a referee starts officiating at Afcon and continental clubs soccer tournaments. Referees officiating during Afcon finals are each paid after the end of the tournament not less than 65,000 US dollars and that is certainly not a mean sum. At the Fifa World Cup, referees are paid not less than 300,000 US dollars apart from the world football governing body paying for the referees’ boarding and lodging in Five Star hotels they are entitled to. Referees are highly paid for officiating in such top flight tournaments partly in order to stop them from being involved in dirty deals in the course of the tournament. Therefore, big money is not only in professional soccer, but also in refereeing as long as a referee works hard in developing his or her ability to officiate at such matches. And like the few, serious medical doctors who always keep themselves abreast with new science and technological development in the medical field through the reading of medical journals; Referees also need to do the same thing, by keeping themselves abreast with new changes in the rules governing the beautiful game. For instance, some of the latest rules in the game include goalkeepers being told to stand on the goal-line when a penalty is being taken. Although the rule is almost one year old, but we still continue to see referees, especially in developed countries, constantly reminding goalkeepers to adhere to the new rule. The question is; are our referees doing the same in order to ingrain in the minds of our goalkeepers the importance of adhering to such rules? If our referees don’t do that, then there is a danger of goalkeepers for our clubs and national soccer teams to be penalised even after they had successfully saved penalty kicks simply because they had moved out of their respective goal-lines before the shot was taken. Before the event of televised live matches, Tanzania coaches and players used to return home with a host of complaints on why they had lost their matches and the scapegoat was always, biased officiating. But as we all know, that is no more. Our men and women can no longer cheat because we can all follow the matches from the comfort of our sitting room. I have always wondered, why don’t we see Tanzanian referees officiating in top flight matches which include Afcon final matches? Now we all know the reason. In the last Afcon in which Taifa Stars participated, we saw a Burundian and Rwandan linesmen. The proverbial ball is securely in the court of the Tanzania Referees Association if such a body exists. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk