COMMUNITY radio owners have been urged to use ‘Radio Garden’—a radio casting platform on the web, which allows users to listen and explore various radio broadcasts available worldwide to increase visibility and coverage. The Open University of Tanzania (OUT) Vice-Chancellor, Prof Elifas Bisanda, says the platform allows listeners to explore worldwide broadcasts and hear various identities across the globe. He made the call when speaking at the national commemoration of this year’s World Radio Day, themed; Radio and Diversity held recently in Zanzibar. Organised by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) in collaboration with Tanzania Development Information Organisation (TADIO) and other stakeholders, the event brought on board different media players from across the country. From its very beginning, radio signals have crossed borders. Radio makers and listeners have imagined both connecting with distant cultures, as well as re-connecting with people from ‘home’ from thousands of miles away — or using local community radio to make and enrich new homes.” Prof Bisanda said: “The new platform increases visibility and geographical coverage of the radio station--an important aspect when it comes to marketing and attracting advertisers." It is an innovative venture that helps to popularize the radio station, hence make radio survive in the competitive market. To me, I see this as one way of sailing through this competitive market, as radio garden allows anyone to tune your radio station anywhere in the world. "This gives confidence to your customers that their products can be heard all over the world," he said, calling for Tanzanian radio stations to get into the modern world if they are to increase their market horizons. “If you look at the world map, there are very few radios in Africa which are on the radio garden as compared to other parts of the world; hence there is a need to work on the area for our radio stations to get popularity and visibility,” he suggested. Radio Garden is a non-profit Dutch radio and digital research project developed from 2013 to 2016, by the Netherlands Institute for Sound and Vision (under the supervision of Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg's Goal Föllmer), by the Transnational Radio Knowledge Platform and five other European universities. He, however, said that community radio should broadcast content that will attract people within the local level. In order for community radios to attract more listeners from their respective local community they should focus on issues happening within their local areas. "Even the adverts should come from within their local areas," Prof Bisanda said. For his part, Media Council of Tanzania (MCT), Executive Secretary of Mr Kajubi Mukajanga called on broadcasters to advocate pluralism in their radio programmes by encouraging representation in the newsroom and promoting a diversity of editorial content and programme types. Commenting on how the traditional media can survive at the time when revenue shrinks, and readers and listeners shift toward free digital content, Kajubi suggested the need for media houses to change their business models that go in line with the current situation. "Media should deliver better and quality journalism products. Diversifying what we offer to the public that is another way of getting out of revenue trap." he said.