SIMBA SC laboured to beat Stand United 3-2 on penalties to reach last eight stage of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) in a tough encounter held at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga yesterday. The match had to be decided on penalties after the regulation time ended in a 1-1 draw. Attacking midfielder, Hassan Dilunga struck from a spot kick to give Simba the lead in the second half but Miraji Saleh canceled it out. It went straight to the penalties and Meddie Kagere saw his low shot parried by goalkeeper Murtala Ahmad, while Juma Fakhi buried Stand United’s first kick to the top corner of goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya’s left side. Clatous Chama restored parity for Simba but Brown Raphael scored Stand United’s second kick to send chilling effects down the spine of Simba fans but Deo Kanda kept his nerves to Simba’s third penalty. Stand United Miraji Saleh wasted the third penalty as his shot came off the top bar, but the home side was lucky as Ibrahim Ajib also fired his shot against the cross bar. Stand United failed to take advantage as Majid Kimbandile blasted wide and the weighing scale shifted to Simba as Dilunga calmly slotted the fifth penalty at the far end of the keeper’s right side. Maulid Fadhil missed the last penalty for Stand United to give Simba a priceless win as they enter the quarterfinals after missing out for the past two seasons. In 2017/18 season, Simba were dismissed by Green Warriors of Dar es Salaam following a 4-3 penalties loss, after a 1-1 draw in the second round. Again, Simba were bundled out by Mashujaa of Kigoma 3-2 during the third round of the 2018/2019 season. The yesterday’s match kicked off at a slow pace, as Simba made a complete change in the squad that featured in their last Mainland Premier League match against Biashara United at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Saturday, in which they won 3-1. Just six minutes into the game, Ajib’s long attempt was spilled off by keeper and Kagere fluffed with a chance to finish off. And, a minute later, Shiza Kichuya turned a defender and took a shot with his weak right foot but it came off the side nets. After the break, both teams slightly picked up the tempo and in the 50th minute, Simba won a spot kick after defender Luis Ishengoma appeared to have handled the ball inside the box. Dilunga stepped up and sent keeper a wrong way. Three minutes later, Kichuya’s shot was blocked to a corner kick. Simba introduced Congolese attacker Deo Kanda, who was out of action since he sustained injury during the league match against traditional rivals Young Africans on January 4th this year. He replaced Kichuya before Clatous Chama came in for Sharaf Shiboub in the 72nd minute. Stand United pulled level in the 67th minute when Maulid Fadhili pressed Tairone Santos and won the ball, outpaced the Brazilian defender before he released a cross that found Saleh is pace to easily tap home. In another ASFC fixture, Sahare All Stars thrashed host Panama FC 5-2 at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to cruise into the quarterfinals stage of the tournament, while at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, host Mbeya City lost 2-1 to Namungo FC of Ruangwa, Lindi. At the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara, Ndanda FC saw off Kitayosa FC by 3-1.