WASAFI Media in conjunction with Temeke Football Association (TEFA) yesterday in Dar es Salaam launched Kivumbi Cup 2020, to be staged at Bandari ground. The competition set to attract 32 teams from various parts of Dar es Salaam, aims at identifying young football talent within the city and the overall winner will pocket 20m/-. Speaking to members of the media at the company's headquarters yesterday, organiser of the competition Mkubwa Fela said the reason behind the introduction of the contest is to tap potential football talent from Dar es Salaam. “Football nowadays is a reliable source of employment since people are positively transforming their lives through the sport. In view of this, we are ready to run the competition with TEFA, who will help us to get what we really want,” he said. He also disclosed that they have not set up the contest to compete with others but to assist efforts being done by various stakeholders to tap essential talent from grassroots. On his part, a representative from TEFA, Mbaraka Mohammed said they will fully cooperate with Wasafi Media, to make sure that the target set is achieved. “We know that we have many talented football players in the country, who desperately require to be exposed and this is a perfect platform for them to be seen,” he said. Also, Maulid Kitenge, a sports presenter at Wasafi Radio said after recognising that many renowned players have been identified from such competitions, they have also come up with the similar initiative to get more players from streets. “We will create certain mechanism such that those players who will emerge the best will be assisted to get channels of playing professional football outside the country,” he said. His colleague Edo Kumwembe called on the teams which will get a chance to be featured in the contest to make sure that they use only those players who are Under-18 and not otherwise. “We will not entertain age cheating during the whole competition because it is detrimental towards getting the required talent we want to build,” said Kumwembe. He also revealed that some of the matches will be broadcast live as one way to expose the players to the public. Registration forms for the teams intending to compete goes at 50,000/-and the draw is expected to be done on March 3rd at Wasafi Media headquarters in the city.