The seasoned journo had pleaded guilty to tax evasion and money laundering and was subsequently sentenced to pay the sum calculated as compensation and fine. Principal Resident Magistrate Janeth Mtega, who was conducting the economic sabotage trial of Kabendera at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam, had convicted him of the two offences on his own plea of guilty after the DPP dropped the third count he was facing-- leading organized crime. When imposing the sentence, the magistrate ordered Kabendera to pay 250,000/- fine for tax evasion and other 100m/- as fine for money laundering. In addition, he was directed to compensate the government evaded tax amounting to 173,247,047/- Initially, Kabendera, a resident of Mbweni at Mpiji area within Kinondoni District, was facing all three counts. But he wrote to the DPP on October 11, 2019, expressing his intention to enter into the plea bargaining agreement in terms of section 194A (2) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). Kabendera also offered to plead guilty to the charges. The DPP accepted his offer by dropping the first count of leading organized crime under section 91 (1) of the CPA and later prepared a new charge sheet containing two counts only in consideration to the plea bargaining agreement sought. The prosecution, led by Principal State Attorney Faraja Nchimbi and Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the DPP, presented the new charge sheet in the yesterday's proceedings. Having been read over and explained to him, Kabendera pleaded guilty. Thereafter, the prosecution read over the memorandum of facts of the case of which the journalist admitted all to be true. Having received aggravating and mitigating factors, the court proceeded to convict him of the two offences and he was sentenced accordingly. According to the plea bargaining agreement signed by both parties, Kabendera is to settle the 173m/- within six months from the date of his conviction, meaning that he would be required to pay 29m/- each month and that he was required to pay the 100m/- immediately to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT). Presenting a memorandum of facts of the case, the prosecution told the court that the journalist participated in an organized criminal group and racketeering on diverse dates between January 1, 2010 and July 29, 2019.  Full story will be published in the Daily News (tomorrow). ..