AS p romised last w eek , today’s article starts with the missing introduction that should have appeared before. That intended introduction is the following: - Introduction: A profile of Ukerewe District, my birth place. I w as born of parents who were residents of the present Ukerewe District, in Mwanza Region; Which is a collection of some 3 8 Islands, some of which are still uninhabited. The demographic profile of Ukerewe District, shows that it is a true reflection of the every wide distribution of different tribal groups with in Tanzania Mainland. Despite its tiny land mass of only 64 0 square kilometers ( including its associated smaller inhabited islands of Ukara; Bwiro; Kamasi; Sizu; and Kweru; Even in these early years when I was growing up , its population was already composed of several tribal groups; All of th embeing immigrants from neighbouring Regions. Surrounding Lake Victoria. There were the ruling Abasilanga ethnic group , that had immigrated from Bukoba Region on the Western side of Lake Victoria. ( But these were subdivided into much smaller ‘ extended family’ subgroups, such as Abasumba; Abazigu; Abahunga; Abakula; and several others. But there were also other tribal groups that immigrated into Ukerewe from the Mara side of Lake Victoria, significant among them were the Abajita and the Abaruri. My father’s parents belonged to the Abaruri tribal group . But having settled comfortably in Ukerewe, my father got married to a woman belonging to the Abazinza tribal group , which had immigrated from Biharamulo area, which was also on the Bukoba side of the Lake. My father’s family reportedly entered Ukerewe circa 1 8 9 0; before he himself was born. How ever, of much greater significance in relation to the tribes of Ukerewe, are the Abalegi, residing separately on Ukara Island. The  Abalegi had their own Chief; but their place of origin before their immigration into Ukara, is practically unknown. Each of these tribes had their own  language, or dialect; But the dominant language was th e Kikerebe, the language of the Abasilanga ruling class. It became dominant mainly because it was adopted by the Catholic Missionaries who came to Ukerewe, for use as the only local language of religion in the Catholic Church. Thus, all the prayer books, and hymn books, were printed in Kikerebe; which was the only language used in preaching the Holy Gospel to their faithful. My father was quickly attracted by the teachings of these Missionaries, and was soon converted. After he had fulfilled all the stringent requirements for baptism; He was baptized as a catholic , with Chief Gabriel Ruhumbika of Ukerewe as his Baptismal father, commonly referred to as ‘ Godfather’. He was subsequently married to a catholic Christian woman, who became my mother; the second born of four children. Our youngest brother Privatus Bagaile departed from this world in 1 9 9 2; How ever, by the grace of the almighty God, the three of us are still surviving at the time of writing this manuscript. Learning the tribal customs and customary laws Presumably like every other child, when I reached the  ‘ age of learning’, my close relatives started teaching me the essential, ‘ must-know ’ tribal customs, starting with how to greet people. This turned out to be rather complicated! I was made to understand that the form, and words of greetings applicable, depend largely on three factors: One, the age of the person who is being greeted; Two, the gender of that person, and three, the relationship between you and that other person. Thus, while the form of words used to greet a male person will be the same for all persons who are older than you, which are “ kampire bwacha sugu” ; The words used in the case of female persons, irrespective of their age, are totally different. The relevant words are “ bwacha mawe” . But still, there is an important exception relating to female persons who are related to you , such as your aunts, in which case, you must use the male words “ Bwacha mawe” . But in the case your sisters-in-law , the word is “ suula” , which is also applicable to your brothers-in-law . This means that you have to know the person you are greeting, in order to offer the correct form of greeting! My two sisters were given similar tuition in relation to the greetings code. But in addition, they w ere also introduced to the strict customs applicable only to women. They were told, for example, what foods women must not eat. Forbidden items included chicken and eggs, plus certain selected types of delicious fish ! Furthermore, they were warned that they must never, ever, get pregnant before they are properly married; Plus being informed of the severe, mandatory punishments, that are applicable to such shameful misconduct. But subsequently, through my own observations as I grew up , I came to learn also about some rather strange customs and practices, such as this one of assigning a male relative to ‘ protect’ a woman who is married in their family ( and her young children) from any danger; Whenever their husbands had travelled out of their houses. Thus, it was mandatory for such husband to inform his relatives in advance  of his travel plans, so that they could make arrangements for the male relative who would undertake such ‘ protection’ duties during his absence! But there were also certain cruel criminal customs, or evil practices, of killing any child who was born with a skin disability ( called zeru zeru in Kikerebe) ; Plus any conjoined twins. The place of executing this cruel practice was a designated, isolated, and uninhabited tiny Island called Kalita, where such unwanted newly born children were taken, and just abandoned to die there! I also came to learn that the Chief of Ukerewe had a special dignified social status, which was very different from that of his subjects. This was demonstrated through the use of special Kikerebe words, to describe the Chief’s ordinary human activities and events like eating, sleeping and dying. Thus, unlike us the ordinary folks who go to sleep , (“kunagila” in Kik erebe) ; There was a special word for that same activity by the Chief, which is kulehya”. Hence, when the Chief was sleeping, they said: “Omukama alehizye”; and not “anagile” like us ordinary folks. Similarly, the ordinary Kikerebe word for eating food is kulya”. But when the Chief was having his meals, they said “Omukama akuboneka”, and not “akulya”, like  us ordinary folks. And when the Chief eventually died, whose ordinary word is “ kufw a” , the correct word for the Chief was “ kugaba engoma” , and not “ kufwa” like other ordinary people. The other reserved customs applicable only to the Chief, included his hair cutting ceremony. Whenever the Chief wanted to have his hair cut, he was taken to a spec ial, isolated Island called ‘ Chehumbe’, that was reserved specifically for that purp ose The Chief would not have his hair cut in public , where his subjects might witness that ( presumably sacred) royal action! For most people today, the value of these antiquated customs and practices is probably limited only to entertainment reading. ; But they may still have much greater value for historians, and for social anthropologists. These, then, were the extraordinary circumstances and surroundings, in which I grew up in Ukerewe Island. And in addition, there was the widesp read fear of witchcraft, that had a negative influence on many peop les’ lives. It is only fortunate that, because of my early admission to boarding schools from the early age of only about ten years ( starting with junior Secondary education right up to Makerere University C ollege) , these general witchcraft fears, and other negative influences, did not affect me to any damaging extent. This is Introduction that was inadvertently omitted at the beginning. We will now go back to where we left off last week , starting with the newly elected President J ulius Nyerere of the Republic of Tanganyika, now being in full command. President Nyerere’s herculean efforts Mwalimu Nyerere was installed as President of the Republic of Tanganyika, on 9 th December, 1 9 62; which was also the date of my appointment as Clerk of th e National Assembly. On the next day, 10th December, 1962, he addressed the Tanganyika Parliament; wherein he outlined his governance aims and objectives, plus his priorities. President Nyerere’s metaphoric phrase “ We must run while others walk ” is what accurately describes his initial leadersh ip strategies; whic  were designed to create an entirely new nation of Tanganyika citizens after the achievement of Uhuru. The initial tasks facing him were monumental and daunting, both in their scope and size. Basically, they were the following: - ( i) to complete the process of decolonization, by quickly dismantling all the colonial structures, and the legal regime, which they had left behind; specifically those which were obstructive to the achievement of national unity; plus the  setting up of new approp riate replacements. ( ii) to undertake the task of developing, and putting in place, new policies and strategies designed to achieve rapid social and economic development for the people of this new nation; strategies which he metaphorically described as “ the fight against the three peop les’ enemies of poverty, ignorance, and disease” . The implementation of most of these tasks had to be carried out in the National Assembly, because they involved either the enactment of new laws; or giving approval to any such Government policies that required Legislative approval. Thus, having just been appointed Clerk of the National Assembly myself, I became closely associated, through this Legislative process in “ the making of a new nation. One outstanding feature of these legislative activities was the necessity to resort to the frequent application of the rule which permits the introduction Government Bills “ under “ Certificate of Urgency” ; simply because the colonial legal regime had to be dismantled in the shortest time possible. The following four major pieces of legislation were among those which were speedily dealt with : - ( i) The Chiefs’ Ordinance; ( ii) the Land Tenure Ordinance; ( iii) the Magistrates Courts Ordinance; and ( iv ) The Education Ordinance. The Chiefs’ Ordinanc  was a big hindrance to national unity, because it created multiple loyalties among the people of one nation, with each tribe owing loyalty to its own Chief, instead of loyalty to the nation. It was swiftly abolished. The land Tenure Ordinance, which made provision for the granting of “ freeh old” land titles, was a recipe for future land troubles, between the few land owners, and the vast landless masses. This was replaced by a new law , which made provision only for the granting of “ leasehold” titles to individual applicants, which were further subjected to specified development conditions. Failure to meet these conditions would lead to the loss of title to that land, which would then be acquired by the Government, and re-granted to another applicant. The Magistrates’ Courts Ordinance was abolished and replaced by a new Magistrates Courts Act, which removed the racial discriminatory nature of the previous Ordinance. Racial discrimination was not only inap propriate in a new Tanganyika whose guiding philosophy was the ‘ equality of all h uman beings’ ( Binadamu wote ni saw a) ; But was also detrimental to the forging of national unity, and to peace and tranquility among the people. Similarly, the Education Ordinance, which had exactly the same racial discriminatory features; and thus was equally repugnant to the philosophy of human equality, was also abolished and replaced by a new Education Act, more ap p rop riate for the new nation. Will be continued nex t week. piomsekwa@gmail.com / 0754767576.