TANZANIA Muslim Council (Bakwata) has backed up the decision by the government of Saudi Arabia to stop foreigners from visiting Islam’s holiest sites over coronavirus fears. Saudi Arabia announced the extraordinary decision to prevent foreigners from reaching the holy city of Mecca and the Kaaba, the cube-shaped structure the world’s 1.8 billion Muslims pray towards five times a day. It also said travel was suspended to Prophet Muhammad’s mosque in Medina. The ban comes just five months before the annual Hajj pilgrimage to be hosted in Mecca and Medina cities. Responding to the statement, Dar es Salaam Regional Sheikh Alhad Mussa Salum said yesterday that the latest decision by Saudi Arabia has come at the right time and they (Muslims) have no option but to support it. “Even the holy Quran has made it clear that no gathering should be held when there is an eruption of any transmittable disease, so we have to be careful on that,” he explained. According to him, the pilgrimage brings together a lot of people from different parts of the world than any other time, it’s too dangerous especially in this period when Coronavirus has spread and killed a number of people already. He added that, as the council is waiting for an update from the Ministry of Hajj and Umrah of Saudi Arabia, promising to comply with whatever will be said by the host country. “The Hajj was supposed to be held in July and so far, over 2000 people have registered to take part in it, we are waiting for the instruction and guidelines from our counterpart, but we believe that by that time there will be no coronavirus,” said the religious leader. The statement issued by the Saudi Arabian ministry of Foreign Affairs indicates that the government was renewing its support for all international measures to limit the spread of this virus and urges its citizens to exercise caution before travelling to countries experiencing coronavirus outbreaks. “We ask God Almighty to spare all humanity from all harm,” read part of the statement. The decision indicated the level of concern about the outbreak potentially spreading into Saudi Arabia, whose oil-rich monarchy stakes its legitimacy on protecting Islam’s holy sites. Globally, coronavirus has so far affected over 80,000 people whereas 2,663 people have died out of 77,658 cases that have been reported. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has urged the member states to be prepared of the virus, to avoid more fatalities in the continent. In Africa, Health Ministers of the African Union (AU) member states held a meeting last week in Addis Ababa Ethiopia where they discussed a continental strategy for preparedness and response to the outbreak. During the meeting, AU suggested on the importance of its member states to timely share information to avoid misinformation spread, which cause unnecessary fear amongst the citizens on the virus.