THE off-grid solar industry has grown into a $1.75billion (over 4trl/-) annual market, providing lighting and other energy services to 420 million users and remains on a solid growth curve, a new World Bank Group and GOGLA report shows. Since 2017, revenues from the off-grid solar industry continue to grow rapidly, increasing by 30 per cent annually. To-date, more than 180 million off-grid solar units have been sold worldwide and the sector saw $1.5billion (3.5tr/-)in investments since 2012. The 2020 Off-Grid Solar Market Trends report indicates that the industry has made tremendous strides in the past decade. GOGLA is the global association for the offgrid solar energy industry that was established in 2012. It now represents over 170 members as a neutral, independent, not-for-profit industry association. Its services assist the industry to build sustainable markets and profitable businesses delivering quality, affordable off-grid electricity products and services to as many customers as possible across the developing world. With 840 million people still lacking access to electricity, the growth of the off-grid solar industry has been cited as critical to meeting the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG7) for universal access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy by 2030. “The off-grid solar industry is instrumental for achieving universal electricity access. We are scaling up our support to client countries by helping them leverage this potential through innovative and financially sustainable solutions,” said Riccardo Puliti, Global Director, Energy and Extractive Industries and Regional Director, Infrastructure, Africa, at the World Bank. According to the report, the sector would need an additional boost of up to $11bn in financing, needs to grow at an accelerated rate of 13 per cent, with up to $7.7bn in external investment to companies and up to $3.4bn of public funding to bridge the affordability gap. “Only by crowding in commercial finance at scale can we reach the target of achieving universal access by 2030. We are eager to work with our local bank partners in the more mature offgrid markets where commercial debt can drive the next stage of market growth,” noted Mr Paulo de Bolle, Senior Director, Global Financial Institutions Group for International F inance Corporation (IF C). Trends demonstrate that companies are moving into new geographical locations and underserved markets as established markets become more saturated. The said companies are also shifting towards larger, highermargin solar home system sales in response to growing consumer demand for appliances and backup systems. “This report is another confirmation of the significant impact off-grid solar has already achieved, and the massive opportunity that remains going forward. The Market Trends Report shares details on where we stand, and where we should be heading next,” GOGLA Executive Director, Mr Koen Peters, said. Lighting Global is the World Bank Group’s initiative to rapidly increase access to off-grid solar energy for the 840 million people living without electricity world-wide. Lighting Global that is managed by IF C and the World Bank works with manufacturers, distributors, governments and other development partners to build and grow the modern off-grid solar energy market.