RUNAWAY Mainland Premier League leaders Simba SC can take another step towards the title, as they take on Mara’s Biashara United at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. Simba believes they have assembled enough artillery to gun down Biashara United in their 24th match of the season and continue to extend gap at the summit of the league table. The Msimbazi Street giants sit top of the pile on 59 points from 23 outings, opening a massive 14 points above second placed Azam FC, who have played the same number of matches. A win by Sven Vandenbroeck charges will take them to 62 points at the top of the league table to keep the season’s title on horizon, as they want to retain it for the third straight season. However, this evening, it will be the battle between the league leaders and 9th place occupants who are undefeated in their previous five outings after posting two barren draws against JKT Tanzania and Kagera Sugar while picking victories over Alliance FC (1-0), Mbao FC (1-0) and Singida United 2-1. In their past five matches, Simba have won four games and lost one against JKT Tanzania, while winning against Polisi Tanzania (2-1), Mtibwa Sugar (3-0), Lipuli FC (1-0) and Kagera Sugar (1-0) respectively. So far, the marathon towards the league title for Simba seems glittering courtesy of good results they are claiming in most of their matches, which is usually the characteristics of the team aiming to win the championship. Speaking in Dar es Salaam prior to the match, Simba Communication Officer Haji Manara said their focus of defending the league title remains unchanged. “Preparations are going on well readying to face Biashara United, who have been posting good results in their past league matches. We respect them as our opponents but our focus now is only to grab the silverware as such, they should forgive…we will go for maximum three points,” Manara said. He then urged Simba fans to descend at the venue in big number to support their team, insisting that apart from winning, they are also playing entertaining football worth watching. On his part, Biashara United Head Coach Francis Baraza reiterated that he has prepared well his charges to win today’s battle. “We have seen them (Simba) how they played their previous games and they are happy to register three clean sheets in their five games. We have also recorded four clean sheets from our five meetings,” Baraza confidently said. He added that they know how big the game is for the two sides but called on his players to be up for the match. After today’s encounter, Simba will visit Stand United for the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) game to be played at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga on Tuesday. Other league matches of the day will see second placed Azam FC taking on Namungo FC at the Kassim Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lind Region. Namungo are placed third on the log with 40 points from 22 matches, same points as fourth placed Young Africans, who have a game in hand. The day will also see Mbao FC taking on Mwadui FC at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. This will be a battle of relegation strugglers. Mwadui are sitting deep in relegation zone, second bottom on 19 points from 22 matches, while Mbao are 16th on the log with 22 points from 23 matches.