IT is a dream come true for some farmers in Bunda and Busega districts who in the few months ago turned to tomato farming, which has earned them millions of shillings in return. The farmers, who produce high quality tomatoes, are counting blessings when the entire country and beyond face a serious shortage of the side dish. Tomatoes are Tanzania’s most consumed vegetables, eaten by millions of people across the country’s diverse religious, ethnic and social groups. Eaten in both raw and processed forms, tomatoes are central to most local dishes and remain a regular ingredient in many soups, stews, sauces and dishes. With a 100kg crate of tomatoes fetching about 100, 000/- farm gate price, growers from several villages in Bunda and Busega mint millions of cash in return, as they smile all the way to commercial bank halls. Bulamba Farmers Group at Butimba Ward in Bunda District, which grew tomatoes in a one-acre farm, for instance, has earned 4.5m/- at farm gate price after selling 45 crates from a maiden harvest of the crop. The cluster’s Chairman, Mr Abiud Masige, said they expected to harvest around 500 crates of tomatoes this season, implying that the group with eight farmers will make a cool 50m/-, if the current price is anything to go by. “Honestly, it’s a miracle for us to make 50m/- for selling tomatoes from a one-acre farm. We cannot even figure out if this is really happening,” Mr Masige said during the Farmers Field Day held at Bulamba Village. When the group applied traditional methods to grow the same crop, it harvested around 64 crates, earning it 1.3m/- per season, owing to low productivity, poor technology and lack of reliable markets. This season’s yields and profits are groundbreaking, far beyond their imaginations, as the crop poises to be an economic game changer for 48 people from eight households forming the group. Mr Masige said with the income, his cluster planned to purchase more land to grow tomatoes commercially for more future outputs and incomes. “We’ll allocate some funds for positioning ourselves to become large producers of tomatoes in the next few years,” Mr Masige vowed. The improved productivity has attracted nearly 20 nearby farmers who are keen not only in joining the prosperous Bulamba Farmers Group, but also in sharing the benefits