THE United Bank for Africa (Tanzania) has introduced four retail liability products that are specifically designed to cater to the banking requirements of age groups to open accounts, perform basic banking transactions and make savings for future financing needs seamlessly. The four products launched are namely UBA Malaika, UBA Janja, UBA Hazina and UBA Kizazi kipya were part of the bank’s efforts become leader in retail banking service in the industry. Speaking at the launching event, the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu, commended UBA for introducing the innovative products, asking them to integrate the bank’s services with health insurance. Statistics show that only 8 per cent of Tanzanians have access to health insurance services. For example, by integrating the Toto Afya Card services that cost 50,400/-per year with the bank’s services could help majority of Tanzanian children access health services. The Bank’s Head of Retail Banking, Geofrey Mtawa said, “UBA has reviewed and introduced a bouquet of retail products to suit the needs of diverse individuals in the market,” he said. He said UBA Malaika’s is designed for parents who are keen to safeguard their children’s future right from pregnancy level up to the age of 12. UBA Janja is for 13 to 17 year olds who are young and diverse while UBA Kizazi Kipya is for the trendsetters, fashionable and dynamic youth who make banking a lifestyle at the age of 18 -25. Hazina is for those who wish to fulfill their dreams and aspirations by saving money to meet their future funding requirements be it for schooling, business set up or a project. This caters for the adults from the age 25 and above. Speaking of the new products, the UBA Tanzania, Managing Director, Usman Isiaka, said that U BA aims at making bank provide customers with innovative services. “In UBA, we focus on products and services delivered on a platter of cutting edge technology and customer service to improve our market share and competitiveness in the industry,” he said.