THE prevalence of stunting rate in under five children due to severe malnutrition in Rukwa Region has dropped by 8.4 per cent from 56.3 to 47.9 per cent. This was said by Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Joachim Wangabo while opening a meeting on the evaluation of implementation of a regional integrated strategic plan on nutrition yesterday. The meeting was coordinated by Lishe Endelevu Project implemented in the region by USAID. According to nutrition experts, stunting is impaired growth and development that children experience from poor nutrition, repeated infections and inadequate psychosocial simulation. Children are defined as stunted if their height is for the "height for age" value to be less than two standard deviations of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Child Growth Standards median. The three-year integrated strategic plan to address malnutrition was initially launched by  Mr Wangabo two years ago and its implementation commenced on July 30, 2018 and expected to end on June 30, 2021. Mr Wangabo insisted the drop in the prevalence rate of stunting by 8.4 per cent for children under five was due to concerted effort made by the regional authorities in collaboration with various stakeholders. Two years ago Nkasi, Kalambo and Sumbawanga districts had signed a contract for the supervision and implementation of the three-year integrated nutrition strategic plan whose implementation would be reviewed twice a year each year. The implementation had incorporated sectoral stakeholders in and outside the government. "We as leaders should not be proud of it because the rate of dropping to 47.9 per cent is still higher...the important thing is we should collectively fight to eradicate stunting in our children due to severe malnutrition in our region," added the RC. The Lishe Endelevu Project funded by USAID has been supportive of the region to fight against malnutrition that leads to stunted children in the region. While presenting the implementation of regional integrated nutrition strategic plan, Regional Reproductive and Child Health Coordinator (RRCHCo) Asha Izima said there were 90,466 stunted children in the region out of 188,864 (about 47.9 per cent). For her part, Lishe Endelevu project Director, Dr Joyce Kaganda, said residents from the Southern Highland region should be educated on the right way of eating  nutritious food to avert stunting due to severe malnutrition in the area. 