SPECIAL Seats lawmaker, Zainab Katimba (CCM) has proposed an amendment of the law to provide for exorbitant punishment to convicted rapists. The PM proposed that should they be found guilty in the court of law, the rapists should be castrated instead of serving a 30-year jail term, which currently seems not to deter the perpetrators. Asking a supplementary question in the House, Ms Katimba argued that the acts of rape and sodomy were still on the rise even after the amendment of the Sexual Offences Special Provisional Act (SOSPA) to provide for a 30- year jail to rapists. “Why shouldn’t the government bring amendments in this law so that rapists who will be found guilty of an offence be castrated in order to instill fear in other culprits?’’ she asked. However, Attorney General (AG) Prof Adelardius Kilangi said the current law was enough to punish the offenders. “By allowing rapists to be castrated we will be contravening the constitution which states categorically that no one is supposed to be subjected to humiliation, oppression or discrimination of any kind,” he stated. Therefore, the government’s chief legal advisor insisted the government was not planning to come up with amendments, at least for now. “That law should be strictly adhered to and the law was amended to provide for a 30- year prison term to offenders, but by allowing them to be castrated we will definitely be contravening section 13(6) of the constitution,’’ he stressed. The lawmaker also wanted the law to be amended to get away with the legal requirement which provided for proof of penetration should someone be charged with rape. According to her, the evidence to provide proof of penetration was difficult especially when children were raped. However, Prof Kilangi said the legislation had already been amended to remove some sections that were demanding for proof in some rape cases. He was seconded by Constitutional and Legal Affairs Minister, Dr Augustine Mahiga who said the government was not ready to amend that law as the 30-year sentence was enough to punish the offenders. “This jail term is enough because we have witnessed other convicts serving their sentence and dying while in prison because 30 years are many,’’ he argued. According to Dr Mahiga, the amendments that were done in that law waived the provisions that wanted children to provide proof before the court of law in rape cases and that instead, it was left to the court to prove the cases through experience and expertise. The Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu shifted blame to parents and guardians who were not close to their children, thus failing to advise them on how they can get rid of rapists as well as reporting the cases should they occur. “There are some parents and guardians who have been negotiating with perpetrators of rape and at the end they withdraw cases from courts,’’ she noted.