TIN mineral extracted in Northern Tanzania is now set for export after the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday launched the regional certification of the silvery-white metal. Prior to the endorsement, the East African nation produced tin and its base metals, but it was not allowed to export them due to lack of certificates of origin, being the necessary prerequisite for exports. The premier hinted that the certification of the valuable metal would assure control on mining and sale, and replace previous export way via neighbouring countries that used to be illegal. The inauguration was part of activities of the Tanzania Mineral and Mining Investment Conference 2020, which sat for two days in the country’s commercial city, Dar es Salaam. According to information from the International Tin Association, African tin mining is also concentrated in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and Nigeria. The meeting involved representatives from the global reputable big mining companies, small miners and other stakeholders, where in his speech, Mr Majaliwa told the participants that Tanzania has made great strides in managing the mining sector through the legal reforms. He said so far the sector has recorded significant achievements, including increasing its contribution to the national income. “For instance, statistics show that during the first half of the 2019/20 fiscal year, the contribution of the mining sector to the national income grew by 13.7 per cent, making it second after the construction sector,” he added. However, the premier cited establishment of minerals regional markets as one of important measures taken to control smuggling of the minerals outside the country. Currently, there are a total of 27 minerals markets countrywide and 28 trade centres. “These markets have been major contributors to enhancing correct statistics over minerals mined in the country contrary to the past,” he said. The International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) introduced the certificate of origin for the Tanzania’s tin, mined in the Kyerwa Tin Fields of Northwest Tanzania in Karagwe District, under its Regional Certification Mechanism (RCM). This is one of the six tools of the ICGLR Regional Initiative to fight against the illegal exploitation of natural resources. Its main focus is currently on four minerals, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TGs) referred to as “Conflict Minerals” under the Dodd-Frank Consumer Protection Act (1502), and as “Designated Minerals” under the ICGLR mineral certification scheme. The purpose of the RCM is to provide for sustainable conflict-free mineral chains in and between ICGLR Member States with the aim of eliminating financial channels supporting armed groups, which sustain or prolong conflict, and/or otherwise engage in serious human rights abuses. The RCM comprises six elements of Mine Site Inspection and Certification; Mineral Chain of Custody (CoC) Tracking; Mineral Export and Certification; Mineral Tracking Database; Third Party Audits (TPA) and the Independent Mineral Chain Auditor (IMCA). Mr Majaliwa further assured the ICGLR that Tanzania, being one of founders of the regional body, would continue implementing protocols of the ICGLR. On the other hand, he challenged the secretariat to ensure that all member states implement the protocols. Earlier, while welcoming the Prime Minister, Minerals Minister Dotto Biteko said changes in the mining sector have continued to attract more investors in the sector, noting that the ministry currently works on many applications for mining licences. Expounding, he pointed out that two of those applications were from big mining companies with investment capital of more than US dollars 100 million each.