WHILE drug abuse and trafficking cases in the country have dropped by 90 per cent, fresh statistics show that a total of 395 Tanzanians have been jailed abroad over their involvement in the illicit trade. Plus, 85 are on death row in China after being sentenced, the Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA) has revealed. The DCEA’s Acting Commissioner General, Mr James Kaji, said on Tuesday in Dar es Salaam that a total of 265 Tanzanians have been jailed in the East Asian nation and 130 others are imprisoned in Hong Kong. He said since its establishment, the authority has managed to reduce drug consumption and trafficking by 90 per cent thanks to the intensified controls at the country’s entry points including the main airport - Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA). “We need to strengthen the efforts at the borders and port of Dar es Salaam because it happens that some of the cargoes that are imported are attached with drugs. Those who are importing cargoes from abroad should be very careful,” he said. Meanwhile, DCEA has arrested two of Dar es Salaam residents over possession of 508.163 grammes of heroin. The suspects, Stanley Ngowi (24) and Jimmy Mlaki (24) were arrested on 27th January 2019 at Ubungo Kibo area in Ubungo Municipality. Mr Kaji said the duo were arrested following a trap that was set for them after the authority received intelligence reports and worked on them. “They were found in a Toyota Sienta car with registration number T776 DSE, where the DCEA officers also found a digital scale and various documents,” he said. During the ambush, two other suspects escaped and the authority is now pursuing them so that they face their charges in court. He explained that the officers found the suspects with powder that was taken to the Chief Government Chemist (CGC) for examinations and that the findings confirmed that it is heroin. “The suspects will be arraigned anytime soon,” noted Mr Kaji, urging Tanzanians who are still engaged in the illicit trade to stop it as they are risking their lives and would be subjected to stiff punishment according to the laws, once they are arrested. The DCEA chief speculated that the suspects might be used by the drug tycoons inside and outside the country, but declare that they were working hard to arrest those in the chain as part of efforts to close all the loopholes. “It is clear that in most of the time, young people are used by tycoons of the illicit trade; we shall continue arresting them regardless of their status or prominence,” he stressed. In 2018, security organs, in collaboration with DCEA and members of the public, apprehended 1,186 suspects with 24.3 tonnes of marijuana and 8.97 tonnes of khat in various parts of the country. During the same year, 7,593 cases involving 10,979 suspects were filed at various courts across the country and 16.94 kilogrammes of heroin were seized, and 744 suspects arrested.