THERE is a need for regions with poor academic performance to lean from regions with consistent better performance in Primary School Leaving Examinations (PSLE), according to Hakielimu. Hakielimu Executive Director, Dr John Kalage, told a press conference in Dar es Salaam at the weekend that a study conducted by the civil society indicated that regions with consistent better performance in PSLE had well written plans which focused on promoting impressive performance in PSLE. “The study revealed that regions with consistent better performance had leaders who were reported to be cooperative, encouraged team work and practised democratic style of leadership whereby educational decisions in respective regions, districts and schools were made collaboratively,” he said. he regions also have strategies to improve teaching and learning at regional and district levels towards promoting brilliant performance in primary school leaving examinations. Dr Kalage said that the study conducted 2019 in the country’s regions sought to explore factors which enabled some schools, districts and regions in Tanzania to repeatedly perform better in PSLE while others repeatedly performed poorly. According to the study, schools with poor performance are mostly located in regions whose leaders have no organised strategies aimed at promoting better performance in PSLE. The regions also have no plans for boosting teachers’ morale. On the other hand, Hakielimu said there was a need for the government and non-governmental organisations to support schools in the country and improve infrastructure. He said more attention should be directed towards schools located far from district headquarters and districts with more rural characteristics. “Communities should also be supported to realise the value of education in their areas,” he said, adding that there was need to establish a national debate on the significance of having a centralised education system and whether its content was relevant to every community.