TANZANIA is among only three Sub-Saharan African countries with low risk of debt distress, Oxford University economics Professor Christopher Adam has pointed out. As of last year, Tanzania, Senegal and Uganda stood in a safe position while the debt to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio in most of the countries in the region recorded a significant upward trend from 2015. The economics guru gave an insight during a public lecture at the Institute of Finance Management (IFM) in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. The lecture, under the theme ‘Are African countries facing a new sovereign debt crisis?’, was meant to hear from experts since debts for some African countries become very high and unsustainable. According to Germanbased online portal for statistics, Tanzania’s national debt in relation to the GDP was 37.67 per cent last year, up from 32.62 in 2014. But the International Monetary Fund considers a debt to GDP ratio of 50 per cent to be within the tolerable limit for developing economies such as Tanzania. The Tanzanian government has been insisting that national debt is still sustainable, despite more loans being secured to fund development projects Recently, the government signed a 3.3tri/- loan agreement with the Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania as funds mobiliser from a total of 17 lenders to fund the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project. At a signing ceremony, Finance and Planning Minister Philip Mpango reiterated that the national debt was sustainable and the government had to borrow funds for implementing flagship projects to change the country’s economy. When explaining the reasons for the government to borrow, Prof Adam argued that debt accumulation was effective for economic development. In June last year, Dr Mpango said the new loans secured by the government during implementation of mega projects was among the reasons that has contributed to increase of the national debt from Sh49.86 trillion in April 2018 to Sh51.03 trillion in April, 2019. “For a small economy like Tanzania, it is important to borrow for economic development, particularly in a current volatile global economy,” the Oxford economist said. He added that it was important to invest in physical infrastructures such as roads and railways and to invest in human capital if the country wants to reap benefits from discovered natural resources such as gas. However, he warned that debt distress may occur if the cost of borrowing increases and the growth of the economy slows down. The other factor is when the balance of trade deteriorates. The economics professor named some of the Sub-Saharan African countries at high risk of debt distress as Gambia, Mozambique, South Sudan, Sudan and Z imbabwe. Countries at medium risk are Benin, DR Congo, K enya, Libya, Madagascar and Nigeria. Looking in the East African Community (EAC) member states, Tanzania’s debt to GDP ratio is the lowest, with Kenya and Burundi had their ratio climbed to 61.6 per cent and 63.5 per cent respectively by last year. Rwanda’s debt-to-GDP ratio was expected to touch 49.1 per cent from 40.7 per cent, taking K igali closer to the 50 per cent threshold.