LEAGUE giants Simba SC and Young Africans will be battling for maximum points as they face Kagera Sugar and Polisi Tanzania at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and Ushirika ground in Moshi respectively today. Simba go in today’s match with a winning mentality despite posting a slim 1-0 win over Lipuli FC on Tuesday at Samora Stadium in Iringa hence if they manage to crush Kagera Sugar, they will hit 59 points from 23 games. Again, all eyes for Simba fans will be directed towards the rejuvenated skipper John Bocco, who has since, scored three goals after his recovery from the long-term injury which obliged him to miss several league games at the start of the season. However, as Bocco scores, it has been a vice versa for the league’s current top goal scorer Meddie Kagere, who has been blunt on the target for the past three matches played by his side. The Rwandan ‘hitman’ has so far scored 12 goals to his name as he wants to retain his golden boot he won last season. However, placed 6th on the table with 34 points from 21 outings, the B ukoba-based side will also come out with jaws wide open to silence the defending champions in the similar fashion as they did to their traditional rivals Yanga in the first round of the league with a convincing 3-0 triumph at Uhuru Stadium in the city. On the day, goals from Y usuph Mhilu, Ally Ramadhani and Peter Mwalyanzi handed the Jangwani street based club their third loss of the season and gave a negative reception to their Head Coach Luc Eymael whose debut at the helm of the team, disappointed him. Similarly, at Ushirika ground in Moshi, debutants Polisi Tanzania will play lungs out to continue their perfect form at home territory from where they have stamped most of their league wins. When the two sides met in the first round game, it ended 3-3 with Y anga’s striker Ditram Nchimbi scoring a hat-trick on the day for his former team Polisi Tanzania to cancel out one goal netted by Mrisho Ngasa and a brace by David Molinga. It was during the same game that Y anga showed interest to sign Nchimbi who is set to face his past club this afternoon. Until today, all their previous three matches, Polisi Tanzania were away from home and managed to win two of them and lost one encounter in the process. They defeated JKT Tanzania 1-0, lost 2-0 to Coastal Union before they demolished KMC 3-2 at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. On the other hand, for Yanga, it is still unclear as to whether midfield maestro Haruna Niyonzima will play after missing the match his team stamped a barren draw with Tanzania Prisons at the National Stadium in the city on Tuesday. His absence on the day had a big impact for coach Eymael who described him as a player with football intelligence and capable to encourage his teammates as the game unfolds. According to him, Niyonzima was ruled out because he was down with Malaria.