YOUNG Africans leadership has announced to shelve the planned extraordinary Members Meeting set for February 16th this year at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC) in Dar es Salaam. According to a statement signed and released by the club Chairman, Mshindo Msolla yesterday, the meeting will be held on another date to be announced later. However, Msolla did not disclose the reason behind calling off the meeting but said “We regret for the inconvenience caused and we will announce another date for the meeting.” The meeting had to dwell on six agendas, which include opening of the meeting, to confirm the quorum, to approve agendas of the meeting, to submit and categorise draft constitutional amendments, to vote for the constitutional amendments and close the meeting. In another development, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) apologised for excluding Young Africans in this mid-week Vodacom Premier League (VPL) fixtures despite the club having more games in hand to play. Yanga, who will play tomorrow against Mtibwa Sugar at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last played a league match on January 22nd against Singida United before facing Tanzania Prisons in Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) last Sunday. Jangwani based side had a weeklong rest without any league action, while at the same time; They are the only team to have played few games (15) in the league so far. Clarifying on the matter was the TPLB Chairman, Stephen Mguto, who said it was an error made by the responsible people in the board, who met recently to re-draft the league fixture. “Let me say the truth, I was there when the fixture was being drafted and at first, we saw that Yanga had many games at hand to play but later on, we forget entirely to set a date for them to play this week,” he said. “When you make a mistake, you say sorry. I want to take this opportunity to apologise to all those who have been affected by this situation. We are human beings capable to make mistakes,” said him. Asked to comment on claims by Yanga that the league body fails to give feedback to some of its letters written to them, Mguto said there must be a reason for that and pledged to work on such shortfalls. However, reacting to this was Yanga Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela, who insisted that the team has been accomplishing its VPL matches not by following the league fixture but rather, through letters written to them by the TFF. Yanga face Mtibwa Sugar in their 17th league match of the season as they want to make three wins in all competitions which will take them to 31 points if they manage to win. Their previous match was a 2-0 win over Tanzania Prisons in ASFC hence it is another opportunity for Head Coach, Luc Eymael to guide his new side to victory.