WHEN Islamic Secondary School Director, Dr Hashim Saiboko, launched the education facility in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam City, he declared that the school would produce welleducated boys and girls groomed well in Islamic laws and beliefs. Sceptics scratched their heads in disapproval. “This school will produce future dependable experts who fear God,” he said as he launched the school four years back. “It is possible to give young Tanzanians very good education while showing them that it is no point having good education without fearing the Creator. We are determined to do this and we shall succeed, God willing (Inshallah).” One of the sceptics said: “Dar es Salaam’s experience on this particular issue speaks volumes to the contrary. Let’s wait and see.” Dr Saiboko pledged that their school would produce future dependable and ethical experts in various fields of Tanzania’s economy. He said future experts would trace their roots to their school in alumni. “Man triumphs with God’s endorsement,” he said. For the vision to be realised, he explained, Ihsan School would be a tripartite venture: Students, their parents and teachers. “There will be wellknitted cooperation between the three parties. Students have their own big role to play, so are parents and teachers,” he said. Last month, the school held its first ever Form Four graduation ceremony, where the guest of honour was the Executive Secretary of the National Examination Council of Tanzania (Necta), Dr Charles Msonde. The score list was impressive. “We had a modest score: 10 in Division One; 16 in Division Two, 25 in Division Three and five in Division Four. No one failed,” he reported unassumingly. Out of the 56 finalists, 30 were boys and 26 girls. But that score was not as simple as Dr Saiboko put it. The executive secretary was happy with the school’s score in the final examinations and the way the school is run. “I have visited many schools in Tanzania, but have never come across something called the Unity of Parents, Teachers and Students that I have found here. I congratulate you on starting this unity. This unity will contribute greatly to promoting education, ethics and patriotism,” Dr Msonde told the graduation ceremony. The sceptics who thought the school would not perform well, life has this time proved them wrong. But there is another dimension to this score. The school’s score is untainted. In some schools, especially private schools, criminals disclose examination papers to school authorities in exchange for money. Finally results of that nature are annulled by the national examination council, to the disgrace of the nation, the schools and disappointment of parents. Let an opportunity be taken here to that in order to end these dangerous and outrageous scandals, very heavy punishments need to be given to all criminals engaging in leaking examination questions. Dr Msonde called on other schools to emulate Ihsan in involving parents and students in running schools. The executive secretary called on schools to put in place enabling systems that will motivate students to study hard and use their energy and time gainfully. He said environments that motivate students into working hard and value learning were equally valuable to the nation as a whole. If schools will have enabling systems that motivate young people to value education, the official said, those kind of schools will produce people who will benefit from training programmes and become skilled workers. “As a nation we have the 2025 Development Vision. We are moving towards a defined goal. We want to have a middle-income industrial nation by 2025. Therefore, we must prepare ourselves to produce experts who will contribute towards achieving that goal with great successes. We must groom young people to become people of integrity, patriotic and people who fear God, the values that are upheld here at Ihsan,” the executive secretary said. He said other Tanzanians schools could learn from Ihsan Islamic Secondary School. Dr Saiboko said the school would be able to produce dependable experts in building a middle-income industrial nation by remaining steadfast on academic performance, enforcing discipline and making young people value uprightness and fear God. “In so doing we shall mould a generation that will not only be one of skilled experts but also a generation that will make decisions on important issues being aware that God dislikes evil acts,” Dr Saiboko said. He explained that in the last four years the school travelled on a bumpy road. “To reach this place you had to pass through a busy area and the school’s compound was not attractive. We banked on cooperation of the host community, a dozen of supportive parents with children here and the local government (serikali ya mtaa). With their support the situation progressively changed and more parents wanted to associate themselves with this school.” Dr Saiboko explained that unreliable electricity was another impediment towards good academic performance. He said the school depended on generators for power, but the school could not afford to run generators for 24 hours. “Lack of reliable electricity badly affected the academic performance of students,” he said. The school now is connected to the national grid and Dr Saiboko is grateful to the government. “The decision by the government led by President John Magufuli to ensure remote areas also get grid power has helped us a lot. We are able to do our work successfully and in a better way.” He said the government’s position on free education was very welcome. “Against this background we are planning to offer advanced level education starting this 2020/2021 fiscal year,” he announced. One of the finalists, Rahmah Ngaja said the four years were not easy. “The initials years were pretty tough but we soldiered on. As days went by life also improved. This graduation is as if it had dawned on us. We are overjoyed.”