PRESIDENT John Magufuli has sent his condolences to President Uhuru Kenyatta and all Kenyans following the demised of the former East African nation leader, Daniel Arap Moi. 
Former President Moi died in Nairobi Hospital early on Tuesday at 95.
In his twitter account, President John Magufuli wrote: “On behalf of the Tanzanian government, I pass my heartfelt condolences to the president of Kenya and all Kenyans for loss of the retired President Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi. Tanzanians remember him for his remarkable leadership and the effort to strengthen the East African Community relationship.”
Other Heads of State from the East African Community also joined Kenyans to mourn the country’s longest-serving ex-president, who ruled from 1978 to 2002. Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni described the late former President as a true African leader who served best the interest of the people he led. "For instance, among your leaders, you have some of your leaders, I don't want to mention names, who are looking to Europe, Mzee Moi was not one of them. He was looking to Africa, East Africa. 
"He was somebody who could work with ordinary people. He was not an elitist, somebody of the masses," He added. 
Kenya’s opposition leader Mr Raila Odinga hailed the departed ex-leader saying he had conducted himself with complete dignity befitting an elder statesman since leaving office.
“I am grateful for the time I spent with him. At this moment of mourning, our hearts and prayers are with the family and the entire Moi clan,” Mr Odinga, who is away in the US, said in a statement.
Announcing his death in an official statement, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the former Head of State passed on at the Nairobi Hospital in the early hours of February 4, 2020, in the presence of his family.
"It is with profound sadness and sorrow that I announce the passing of a Great African Statesman, H.E. Daniel Toroitich arap Moi, the Second President of the Republic of Kenya. "His Excellency the Former President passed on at the Nairobi Hospital on the early morning of this 4th February, 2020, in the presence of his family.” The statement adds "His legacy endures in Kenya even to this day; encapsulated in the Nyayo Philosophy of ‘Peace, Love and Unity’ that was his mantra throughout his tenure as our Head of State and Government." The deceased’s son Gideon Moi during press conference at the hospital said his father had passed away peacefully in the comfort of his family.
"I was by his side, and as a family we have accepted. Mine is just to give my heartfelt gratitude to all Kenyans and non-Kenyans for the prayers and thoughts that they have been giving to Mzee and to our family. Thank you all" he expressed. Moi who ruled Kenya from 1978 to 2002 and as the country’s longest-serving President is one of the last in a chain of African heads of state who ruled in the 70s, 80s and 90s - and who were forced out thanks to multi-party politics. President Uhuru has ordered a period of national mourning, until a state funeral is held, on a date not yet announced.