FBME Bank, under liquidation, has lost its appeal before the Court of Appeal, challenging payments of over 500m/- to Cristal Resort, a limited liability company incorporated in Zanzibar, which operates a tourist hotel in the Island. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Gerald Ndika and Rehema Kerefu ruled in favour of the company, the respondent, after dismissing the appeal by the bank, the appellant, opposing findings of the High Court of Zanzibar at Vuga. During hearing of the appeal, counsel for the appellant bank had contended that the trial court erred in law and in fact for entertaining a suit without having jurisdiction in contravention of section 9 of the Bankruptcy Act. In their judgment delivered recently, the justices of the appeals court noted that the respondent’s suit against FBME in the High Court was lodged on May 2015 and by then it had ceased to operate independently as the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) had taken its possession since July 2014. According to the justices, it was irrefutable as per the records that the respondent was aware at the time of instituting the action that FMBE was under statutory management of the Treasury Registrar. They said that it is common cause that the BoT seized FBME and placed it under statutory management pursuant to its powers under section 56 of the Financial Institutions Act, 2006 (BFIA), the consequences of which could be found under section 57 (1) (c). Such section provides no action or proceeding may be commenced by creditors of the bank or financial institution under the provisions of the Companies Act, relating to impending or actual insolvency or under any other law regarding insolvency or bankruptcy. “No doubt that these provisions are aimed at obviating unnecessary insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings against a seized bank at the behest of the creditors. “But, they do not insulate such seized bank from other kinds of legal actions or proceedings founded on tort or breach of contract,” they said. The justices further noted that the BoT enjoys the power in terms of section 58 (2) (f) to “initiate, defend and conduct in its name any action or proceeding to which the bank or financial institution may be a party.” Such powers, they said, fortifies their view that the bar under section 57 (1) (c) of the BFIA to commencement of legal actions against a seized bank is not absolute but one restricted to specified bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. “We think the power to defend and conduct in its name any action or proceeding includes authority for defending against existing or impending legal actions other than the barred creditor- initiated bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings,” the justices further said. They were, therefore, unpersuaded that the action in the High Court could not be lawfully commenced without leave of the court. “Consequently, we dismiss the appeal with costs,” the justices declared. In 2014 a dispute arose between the bank and the respondent, the latter claiming that the former had unduly refused its request for a change of signatories to its accounts. It was further alleged that the bank, without any cause, persistently refused to release bank statements to the respondent.