TO get a hint of what an East Africa Community (EAC) member state will look like in next 30 years to come, pack yourself in a school, college, university lecture class today. EAC’s future development, or path of new EAC region or the lack of it, is indistinguishably linked to what is taking place in EAC’s training institutions. I know, many will wrestle to apprehend my observations, henceforth, let me expound with a fact following years of studying and observations on what is taking place in our schools, primary to university level. Research conclusions quoted in the media shows that only 5 per cent of the young people in sub-Saharan Africa go to school. Equated to population growth trend and size, this proportion is so small that you can be sure that those few young people in college or universities will, by definition, be managing the show at different levels of our governments in 20 or 30 years from now. We all know that industrialist and entrepreneurs in private sectors and public sectors, the experts, engineers and administrators who will be in charge for tomorrow’s infrastructure, health care, army, legislatures, education and other strategic sectors and thinkers for both private and public sectors are sitting in a college or university classroom today. Envisaging what will East Africa look like, in the near future, whether this influential 5.0 per cent will play a optimistic starring role in creating a better, more productive, and more just future for East Africa, will in my view remain a contested debate. Will young people at school today going to have robust moral values, mind-set, shared vision, skills, knowledge and ability and above all, an anxiety for the greater good, notwithstanding of background, faith, sex, or income level they are facing today? Will they be state-of-the-art intellectuals, ready to develop and inspire answers to questions tantalizing our minds today? Will they have business intelligence mind-set, to be entrepreneurs ready to work competitively and hard and support private sector to thrive to open up more job opportunities? Or will the rest of the world watch, keep a distant to watch how East Africa and Africa as whole’s next influential 5 per cent rests as leadership followers overwhelmed by dishonesty and ineffectiveness and failure to realise what unit between themselves can yield? These, not all, but set of questions might mean simple but, we all know what our teenagers are going through while at home, in colleges and universities and at our households. I am not stirring the quality of education offered or those who offer the training, but at the bigger picture, are we proposing to our young people at households, school, colleges and universities skills that would make them graduate fully qualified, not only for the fourth industrial revolution, but ready to face growing demands for rapid economic, environmental and social changes, for careers that have not yet been generated, for technologies that have not yet been conceived, and to solve social hitches that have not yet been foreseen. It is known, the world is shifting rapidly and to keep pace, higher education and those who are at the heart of curriculum orchestra must transform and become innovative. As students contemplate their preferences for higher education, must be assisted by strategy makers and their guardians to meditate strategically, because we might be asking ourselves as guarding, will the cost of my children’s education today be repaid by its value tomorrow? Will my education career path permit me to balance technical skills at risk of being replaced by automation, with timeless and borderless soft skills? Will my education prepare me or give me a visa for a line of business and will that line of business even exist by the time I’m ready to join the labour force? The answers to these questions are not simple at household level and even at national and regional level. It is well known fact that the skills gap tale has been a problem amid employers i.e. businesses, managers, companies owners etc. in a number of sectors for the last half-decade, and in my opinion the problem will not be resolved up until our institutes of education be it parents, colleges, or universities find ways to get a feeling for to the new strains of the global economy. Knowing how education and training interact with the economy, and envisaging what an African country, like Tanzania or Rwanda etc. will look like in 30 years, can help you better understand why some workers, businesses, and economies flourish, while others falter or even overwhelmed with ineffectiveness. Constructive modifications have begun to take hold in advanced education on a small scale, and I have to admit, Rwanda has been good on that. These inventions, updates and refocused ways of thinking about the kind of skills market need are beginning to yield better effects for students and thus for the economy at large. If thinking like these could take broader hold over the coming years, the way young people get trained in their career development path could become more effective for themselves, instructors and businesses. The concern and questions underlined above is one issue that would heavily impact our young people’s future and if we want an opportunity to start afresh, we need to choose a different course which would led us to a more successful terrain. Ideas that might help us think differently about the skills desirable in the market are many, but for clarity, I will only hint on few ones. A traditional three or fouryear degree in most of our universities is comprehensively measured by the standard requirement for career success. However, in a wide range of fields, three or four years of higher education are avoidable. Fairly than trying that students arbitrarily extend their education over the course of three or four years, more motivated, affordable and practical alternatives should be encouraged to seed in entrepreneurship culture. The first-class placed on a three or four-year degree can inhibit many young who do not have the resources or prospects to delay their careers for three or four years from obtaining the same level of success as their peers elsewhere. Experts studying students’ performance have established that about 60 per cent of full-time college students fail to complete their degrees within prescribed time schedule. Analysis on the world could be better off without college for everyone views by Bryan Caplan, in his 2018 publication-February Issue, serves as point of reference in discussion offered here. Analysis emerging from the study established that the labour market doesn’t pay job seeker for the impractical subjects one has mastered; instead, it pays you for the pre-existing traits ones signal by mastering them. This is not an exceptional idea. Michael Spence, Kenneth Arrow and Joseph Stiglitz, all Nobel Prize winners in economics, made inspiring contributions to the theory of educational signaling. Every college student who does the least work required to get good grades silently endorses the theory. But according to these Nobel Prize winners, signalling plays almost no role in public discourse or strategy making. As a society, we continue to push ever larger numbers of students into ever higher levels of education. The main effect is not better jobs or greater skill levels, but a credentials arms race. Forging stronger ties between industry and education, perhaps through internships and the like remains best alternative for everyone benefits. Through such arrangement students get increased access to mentors and internships at the same time schools improve the relevancy of their curriculum and companies get the first pick of rising talent. Our region needs homegrown, local talent to solve today’s problems and prevent tomorrow’s catastrophes. Our graduates have begun to develop financial products for mobile phones and other applications. They are working in emerging finance sector, agricultural high tech etc. attracting needed capital for local ventures. Where possible, there is a need to take deliberate measures that will land our young people to the world that would help them explore opportunities, which will make them not only competitive but productive and efficient. One thing we all need to remember is that sitting in Africa’s classrooms today are students whose education will set Africa’s course over the next two or three decades to come. Why? As region, we are running into unmatched social challenges, economic and environmental encounters driven by hastening globalisation and a faster rate of technological innovation. These dynamics are providing us with innumerable new opportunities for human development. The future in my view is uncertain and we cannot predict it but we need to be open and ready for it through the kind of skills and mind set imparted to our young people. The children entering education in 2019 or 2020 will be young adults in 2030. Can universities, colleges and schools prepare them for jobs that have not yet been created, for technologies that have not yet been invented, to solve problems that have not yet been anticipated. It will be a collective responsibility to seize opportunities and find answers. To navigate through such uncertainty and be ready to take up challenges and turning them into opportunities, students will need to be provided with enabling environment that would help them develop interest, resourcefulness, flexibility and self-regulation mind-set change, while respecting and appreciating the ideas, perspectives and values of others. In this approach we as nation will be able to turn failure and rejection into prospects and opportunities most needed by our youth people.