PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Thursday unveiled several achievements the Judiciary has recorded over the past four years of his administration, including significant decrease of delaying determination of cases and delivery of justice in general. He promised to work on the challenges the Judiciary was facing, including manpower and continuing to provide funds to improve infrastructures. “You really did a great job. Over the last four years, the legal sector, in particular the Judiciary, has been very successful. Much congratulations to you,” Dr Magufuli said when outlining his personal assessment of the judiciary’s performance in the dispensation of justice in the country. Officiating the Law Day, to signify the official start of judicial work for the 2020/2021 calendar year, the president noted that for 2019, the judiciary disposed of all cases that were filed within the same year. He also pointed out that through special operations, the judiciary has successfully reduced the backlog of cases since 2016. “I am very happy over these achievements and I thank you very much for all the great work you have done,” President Magufuli said. The reduction in case delays, he said, was also attributed to various actions taken by the government in collaboration with the Judiciary. Among major actions, according to him, is the appointment of 11 justices of the Court of Appeal and 39 judges of the High Court of Tanzania, as well as recruiting 396 new magistrates, thus increasing the number of magistrates from 700 in 2015 to 938 to-date. “This move has helped reduce the workload for judges and magistrates. As explained by the chief justice, the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs under legal powers conferred to him, he granted extended jurisdictions to 195 magistrates, of whom 98 determined 1,132 cases triable by the High Court last year,” he said. President Magufuli also pointed out that the bold decision of the Judiciary to start using Information and Communications Technology (ICT) system, video conferencing facilities and mobile court system had also contributed much in speedy disposal of cases. “In fact the use of ICT within the judiciary has not only reduced delays in disposal of cases but also abridged spending of funds and increased revenue collection from 1.6bn / - in 2017 to 2.6bn/ - in 2019. In addition to that, ICT applications have reduced corruption,” he said. According to him, his government has played a major role in fighting corruption not only within the Judiciary and other legal departments, but also in other parts of the country. He explained that on part of the judiciary, a total of 363 officers were taken to task for their involvement in corrupt practices. Dr Magufuli also pointed out that establishment of the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division of the High Court had also played a role in fighting the crimes. Since its inception in 2016, a total of 119 economic cases have been filed and 89 of them determined. This, he said, was equal to 70 per cent of all cases. In all the cases determined, he went on, a total of 13.6bn/- was paid as fines and another 30.6bn/- paid as compensation. Apart from detailing the recorded achievements, the Head of State was, however, quick to point out some challenges that needed to be addressed by other stakeholders, in particular, the investigation machineries, notably the police and the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB). President Magufuli was not happy on inordinate delays of investigations of cases and directed all investigators and law enforcement agencies to work on the matter quickly as such setbacks had been contributing to congestions of prisons. He also raised his concern on delays of determination of cases related to tax disputes of which 20 cases with estimated value of 247 million U S dollars are still pending and was aware of other cases whose estimated tax value of 21.5tril/- had not been determined by relevant judicial organs.