ALL is set for the Tanga Regional Basketball Association (TRBA) to host 2020 League to be staged in the region early next month. The annual League that brings together men’s and women’s teams based in Tanga region, is scheduled to start on March 13th this year. Bandari and Deepses Queens are men’s and women’s defending champions who emerged the winners in the last year’s league. According to TRBA secretary general, Alfonce Kusekwa the preparation for the regional league is on to gear. “We had an executive committee meeting this week that among others it has unveiled the 2020 provisional calendar which will be opened by the regional league. “We also reviewed the last year league report and also discussed about the measures to be taken to develop basketball in our regional,” said Kusekwa. He noted that TRBA had successful organised the second best league in 2019 which enables teams to compete in the home and away venues, a style he said has been adapted from basketball international body (FIBA). Kusekwa added: “However, besides the success, we also faced several challenges that include the inclement of weather which saw several matches being postponed. Umpires and league running costs are the other problems that needed to be addressed and set way forward so as to have a better league.” The general secretary said several measures have already been taken to address challenges. There have been advices on updated registration regulation, fixture, league management and also improve winners prizes and participation fee. He said that registration forms will be out from tomorrow and February 28 which is set as a deadline date for those wishing to take part in the league. “We will be very tough for that, team which fails to comply with the rules and fail to submit registration form in time will not be allowed to take part in the 2020 League.” Adding he said meantime their focus now is to raise funds, facilities and finding sponsors so as to organise an efficient league and as well as to prepare teams well for the 2020 national level competitions which are very important for youths to showcase their talent. Kusekwa said that TRBA is ready to work with any stake holder who will be ready to support it. He also extended the association’s appreciation to clubs, players, stake holders and all basketball fans for their support in the last year league and hoped they will continue doing it this year.