SOME 29 hunting blocks are set to go under the hammer in a Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) coordinated online auction scheduled to begin early next month. The blocks are located within Game Reserves, Game Controlled Areas and Open Areas, according to information released by the Morogoro based institution, yesterday. The auctioning which starts on March 5th this year, will see bidders submitting their applications online, a move that seeks to prevent corruption in the $20m /- subsector. According to TAWA, each interested company will be allowed a maximum of five blocks. “The tenure of ownership of hunting blocks shall be ten years for Category I and hunting II blocks, and 15 years for Category III hunting blocks,” announced TAWA on its website. While South Africa and Namibia enjoy a lion’s share of visitors, who tour the countries for hunting purposes, Tanzania is pegged with the likes of Zambia, Botswana and Mozambique, which enjoy a shared 40 per cent of tourists who visit for hunting activities. According to the Wildlife Conservation Act Cap 283, no person shall be considered for allocation of a hunting block, unless he/she has a company registered with the Registrar of Companies within the country and particularly focusing on hunting of animals. Another prerequisite of owning a hunting block requires a company to hire a director with at least five-year experience in matters of conservation. Only successful applicants will be permitted to participate in e-auctioning of hunting blocks, which will remain open for a period of seven consecutive days, according to TAWA, where the Minister Natural Resources and Tourism will issue successful bidders with a hunting block allocation certificate. The new system of auctioning the hunting blocks is expected to curb the otherwise rampant corruption in the process of issuing hunting licences and increase revenues to the government. While addressing tourism stakeholders back in October 2017, Tourism and Natural Resources Minister Dr Hamis Kigwangalla stated that all hunting permits will be re-applied through online auction. According to the minister, issuance of the hunting permits through auction would make the exercise more transparent.