RETIRED President Benjamin Mkapa has agreed to translate his book ‘My Life, My Purpose’ into Kiswahili for the majority of Tanzanians to read and understand its message. He was speaking at the weekend as he responded to a number of questions from the audience who attended an event to introduce the book to Lake Zone residents. Responding to a question from a participant Mr Mkapa said he had given the go-ahead for the book publisher Mkuki na Nyota Company to translate the book and republish it in the national and widely spoken language, Kiswahili. “I failed to write the book in Kiswahili because our national archive which I depended on to collect records was largely in English. However, I am happy that another retired President is preparing his book in Kiswahili,” he said. He was referring to the second President of the United Republic of Tanzania and retired President of Zanzibar Ally Hassan Mwinyi who is also writing his book which would be published in Kiswahili. Responding to another question on the deterioration of a reading culture among Tanzanians regardless of their economic and educational background, the retired President said it was an alarming issue, cautioning an upward trend of consuming internetbased information. According to him, substantial online materials are misleading. He challenges Tanzanians to cultivate a culture of reading well-researched publications for their own good. Mr Mkapa won accolades when he explained why he decided to write his book, detailing many of the issues he stood for especially when he was President for two terms from 1995 to 2005. One of the issues that pushed him to write the book was his policy decision of privatisation of some parastatal institutions as well as colliding with the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, on the same as well taking bold decisions to seek loans from the Britton Woods. “I took bold steps of seeking loans from the Word Bank and carry out privatisation exercise of loss making parastatal institutions in good faith and after thorough consultation Mwalimu had to agree to my plans,” he stressed. According to Mkapa, Mwalimu Nyerere had an outstanding stance on a number of issues, including a new culture that emerged as soon as the multiparty system was re-introduced of presidential candidates using helicopters during presidential campaigns. He could not hide his feelings on the performance of one of his best member of cabinet and now a sitting President John Magufuli, saying he was very instrumental in all portfolios he appointed him to serve notably the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure. “President Magufuli helped me a lot and was the one who advised me to start allocating locally sourced revenue to major construction projects rather than depending on foreign aid,” he noted