TANZANIA soccer fans have, as usual, gone beyond the line they are supposed not to cross, the use of abusive language against foreign players in a foreign club’s instagram, all in the misguided belief that, would help Samatta’s cause! It all started with the Aston Villa league match, which was the first for Samatta, against Bournemouth in which Aston Villa went down 1-2. Samatta was quick to respond to his fellow Tanzanians in which he noted that much as they wanted him to succeed, it was wrong for them to abuse his fellow players, again, in the misguided ground that they were not passing him the ball. Since the end of that match, Tanzanian soccer fans have been criticizing Aston Villa players, and in particular Jack Grealish, for not passing the ball to Samatta. What Tanzanian soccer fans don’t seem to realize is that Samatta is an employee of Aston Villa and he was engaged by the club in order to boost the club’s fortunes. I have personally not seen Samatta’s contract with his club. But I’m quite sure it (contract) talks, among other things, the cooperation Samatta is supposed to forge with other players. What other players do on the field is neither Samatta’s nor Tanzanian soccer fans’ business. Therefore, whatever happens on the pitch that is the business of the players and their team manager. And the same thing can be said about Samatta’s colleagues’ individual contracts. They are not different from what Samatta has. But to say that Grealish or any other Aston Villa player were, deliberately, not passing the ball to Samatta is to stretch their ‘love and support’ for Samatta too far. Technically, it was not easy in that match to get a ball to Samatta who was, all the time, tightly marked. In short, you cannot blame other players for not scoring more than what he did. Besides, Bournemouth players knew Samatta after what he did, twice, against Liverpool, a team most English Premier clubs have failed, not only to beat, but to score a goal against. Therefore, let’s not shift blames to other hapless players. What is more ridiculous is stretching such misplaced ‘love and support’ to the point of abusing other players in the team as if their job in the club is to ensure that Samatta scores! What we need to know is that Samatta as an individual player needs to work for himself and his club’s success. In fact, that is why they brought him to the club in the first place. Indeed, Aston Villa brought Samatta to England because of his sterling scoring record with the Belgian club, Genk where he scored over 30 goals as Samatta, as an individual. The English Premier club now wants Samatta to replicate his Genk’s performance in the English Premier League which is tougher than what the Tanzanian had in Belgium. The English Premier league is tougher and far better than the Belgian league because, one, this is the league which has the UEFA current reigning soccer champions, Liverpool. In fact, we can all recall that, it is the English Premier league that produced an all English UEFA Champions League final last season. And precisely, because of that, Samatta needs to work harder just as Grealish and others in the club are doing. Simply put, let’s put our misplaced love and support for Samatta, away. And at best, for our own clubs at home where we are used to supporting foreign clubs when one of our own clubs is playing against a foreign club in the continental clubs tournament. Now that ‘miscondut’ we always wallow in, is now driving us beyond our borders and the sooner we stop this madness the better for us and our beloved nation. In fact, this is one of the main reasons that our government recently decided to keep a time limit for registering our cellphones through our electronic national IDs. The government did that after being fed up with our continued misuse of our respective cellphones. Through the new, commendable government’s decision which has led to the switching off of hundreds of thousands of cellphone lines, it would now become extremely difficult for one to misuse one’s cellphone’s registered line. We all know what some have been doing with their cellphones before the government’s intervention; abusing other people, some of whom they don’t even know and when they are not doing that, conning others. Whoever now continues to do either of the foregoing, would be easily caught and dealt with. The point is, if we want to help Samatta, then we should encourage him to work harder. Let us stop attacking Samatta’s colleagues. We also need to know that using Kiswahili in attacking foreigners is not smart. There are many foreigners, including the British, who can easily decipher whatever is written in Kiswahili. The culprits need to know that ultimately, their conduct is not going to help Samatta. To the contrary, it would create a rift between Samatta and his colleagues in the team; players he badly needs to work with in order to succeed.