AFTER a life typified by arguments, fights, and disagreements, at last, the South Sudanese President Salva Kiir Mayardit and opposition leader-Dr Riek Machar Teny Dhurgon have seemingly struck a long awaited deal. Kiir avowed; “The official end of the war, and we can now proclaim a new dawn.” Peace is “never to be shaken ever again,” the President believed. Equally, he clearly added that he had forgiven Machar and asked for Machar’s forgiveness. He called on their respective Dinka and Nuer ethnic groups to do the same. For the sake of the youngest nation in the world, the two sons of Africa have agreed, paved the way and created the muchanticipated transitional government of national unity. This is wonderful news to South Sudanese in Torit, Maridi, Gogrial, Kapoeta, Tonj, Yirol and Renk to mention a few. It is also good news for Africa whose vision of “an integrated, prosperous and peaceful continent, driven by its own citizens and representing a dynamic force in the international arena” is being earnestly sought so that it can be realised at the shortest time possible. As to what challenged and led them to, as they say, to forgive one another, it would be difficult to make a conclusion. However, it would be unfair if we cannot sympathise with the south Sudanese pain and appreciate some key efforts, which should have contributed to the two rivals return to the negotiating table. To mention a few, I wish to note and acknowledge the impact of the intense international community pressure and determinations. The internal South Sudanese cry for peace, and the Vatican unprecedented gesture of 2019, where Pope Francis, the 83 year old pontiff extraordinarily kissed the feet of Kiir and Machar. A symbol of humility-intended to clean Salva and Riek hearts of selfish ambition, kill their pride, and teach them the lesson of love, among them and the people of South Sudan. Undeniably, this new development sounds great and very much promising. It looks as if South Sudan is back on track. But let us not rush into conclusions. For me the road to peace in South Sudan is still very long and a steep one. The task ahead of them is enormous. I will explain. I think the two leaders should look back and reflect on the pain they, in one way or the other, inflicted on their people. In my view, it is time for Mayardit and Dhurgon to say, after over 400,000 deaths, there will be no more deaths. Never again! Kiir and Machar should trust each other in order that over a third of the country’s 13 million people uprooted, can be re-rooted into the small country full of oil reserves-the third largest in Africa. They should know that the eyes of the world are still upon them. To use the words of Pope Francis, the ordinary citizens have to become Fathers of the Nation. They better commit themselves to press for real reconciliation and lasting peace. They should go beyond addressing the enmity, hostility and conflict between the Dinka and the Nuer. They should always remember the Shilluk, Zandan, Acoli, Toposa, Murle and Kakwa and ensure that these too are given space and enjoys the value of inclusion in South Sudan. Kiir and Machar have a responsibility to ensure that these ethnic groups are also lifted and never continue to be confronted with barriers that prevent them from fully participating in their economic, social and political life. Salva and Riek should know what inclusive development is all about. As they open the door for new South Sudan, they are required to pay attention to this dream. And they can do this by constantly asking themselves who, in their jurisdiction, is being left behind. This will not be easy, but they should also know that by focussing on getting specific to leave no one behind, this can be a potential key for prosperous South Sudan. Put simply, each one of them should desire to see every part of the nation transformed, be it in Juba, Malakal, Wau, Bor, Yei, Yambio, Aweil, Bentiu or Rumbek, to mention a few. Now back to my original question; What’s next? Well, a number of issues must be considered here. Thinking enthusiastically, there are concerns to be addressed. Salva and Riek must know that whenever opposing groups or elite actors within a country create a government of national unity, most specifically through codifying power-sharing provisions, the process must first of all be regarded as a tool to facilitate a settlement that ends or forestall violence. This means that, for the government to promote stability for this small conflict-affected country, both Kiir and Machar have a huge task ahead of them. They must sincerely provide assistance and diligently support, what I call South Sudan peoples’ project. Anything short of assurance, assertion and commitment will open the door for the creation of high levels of distrust and ill-will among the two leaders and their followers, and this can undermine the stability of the current government and the possibility of success in the future endeavours to rebuild South Sudan. So at the onset of the work of the new government of national unity, one does not expect the current state of relations between the two leaders to be characterised by mistrust and controversy. Trust must colour and shade the implementation of the agreement and its related protocols. What I personally see and would expect is that both Kiir and Machar will be aware of the fact that for South Sudan to heal, it is them who are the key people to ensure that the agreement is fully implemented inclusively so as to support peaceful transition to a permanent government come 2023. Indeed, the government they have formed has a unique ability to unify these two and their followers-past aggressors in a common vision for the future. There is hope that the government could usher in a new era of peace and stability in South Sudan. That said however, and in order for the their institutions to work fruitfully, they should make every effort to ensure that what failed them in the past, that is-high levels of distrust and ill-will among parties, mistrust and controversy over the implementation of the past agreements, are avoided at any cost. Well, let’s hope that this time a real deal has been struck. Let’s forget about the past arrangement that twice collapsed. Let Africa and the world help Salva and Riek to crave for peace. Surely, there is future in Juba. Cheers! The author, Dr Alfred Sebahene, is Ag. Head of Department of Corruption Studies, Lecturer, Researcher, and Social Issues Analyst at St John’s University of Tanzania, Dodoma. Email address: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk alfredsebahene@ gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997