THE government has maintained its stance of not evacuating its 420 students in Wuhan, China, arguing that the entire area is now under quarantine, a measure that also reduces the chances of the diseases spreading to other parts of China and elsewhere in the world. A statement issued on Friday evening by the Director of Communications in the foreign ministry, Mr Emmanuel Buhohela, disclosed that in the meantime the government respects the conditions and requirements of the quarantine in preventing any further spread of the virus, unless it is decided otherwise by the government of China. The government decision is a result of expert reports which revealed out breaks of the virus in the countries that decided to evacuate their people from China, causing a further spread. He urged the parents, relatives and guardians of the students to remain stable, cautioning them against politicising the issue, taking into consideration that diseases do not take sides, once they hit they can hit hard. The government through its embassy in Beijing, has continued to devise solutions to tackle the various problems facing the students, including providing masks and disinfectants among other crucial needs. Recently, when the Foreign Minister, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, communicated with the Foreign Minister of China Mr Wang Yi regarding the situations of the Tanzanians, he was assured of their security. Besides, the government is finalising the process to set up a hotline which will enable experts to offer psycho-social support to the students and parents while efforts to contain the outbreak are continuing. The government extends recognition to the government of China for the efforts they have been putting to contain the virus, calling upon other nations to support the initiatives in eradicating the disease. Likewise, the government will continue to closely monitor the situations and offer support to its citizens in China particularly those settled in Hubei Province at this challenging moment. Meanwhile, the Chinese Embassy in Tanzania released a statement yesterday applauding the measures taken by the government to provide masks, disinfectants and set up hot-lines for psychological comfort for the students as timely and relevant. The statement cited the initiative as among the safest and most feasible way for the students to maintain their safety, stay put and ensure effective self-protection. Among some of the measures being taken by Hubei provincial government include setting up special teams to prevent foreign teachers and students from infection, provision of daily necessities for foreign students and introducing hot-lines for foreign students to provide 24-hour service. Others are responding to the concerns raised by relevant parties in a timely manner and actively planning and preparing for online learning for the students.