TANZANIA has embarked on a training project for harmonised commodity description and coding system (HS), which aims at helping the development of revenue authorities in East Africa Community (EAC). “The training programme is intended for Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officials, those in the Institute of Tax Administration (ITA) as well as clearing agents. It is set to improve revenue collection authorities,” remarked ITA Senior Instructor Pius Kibahila as he received his award as the most active master trainer of HS in EAC. The project is under Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and World Customs Organisation (WCO) and it is for technical cooperation on capacity development for trade and facilitation and border control in EAC. Handing over the award, Chief Representative of JICA Tanzania Office, Naofumi Yamamura said Mr Kibahila was commended for his outstanding contribution as a master trainer in HS classification implemented in collaboration with five revenue authorities from the EAC member states namely Tanzania, Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda. “The programme’s focus is to develop a pool of trainers in the EAC revenue authorities as well as developing regional training materials to develop self-contained training capacity within the region to train their customs’ staff and relevant clearing agents. Mr Kibahila is one of the trainers specialised in HS classification,” he explained. In the last two years, the master trainers had trained about 6,000 customs officers and stakeholders in the EAC. In Tanzania, over 1,000 TRA officers and customs agents were trained in HS classification, customs valuation and intelligence analysis in one year alone. He noted that among the 25 regional master trainers on HS classification, Mr Kibahila had been delivering the largest number of trainees over the last two years, training not only TRA officers, but also clearing agents, ITA post graduate diploma students, officers and agents in other EAC countries. “He has trained 328 people from October 2018 to September 2019. JICA really values and commends him for this outstanding contribution to our joint trade facilitation project and to the Tanzanian nation in general.” On the other hand, ITA official Emmanuel Masalu said ITA recognised the importance of instructors to be involved in international training activities.