AS part of efforts to prevent spread and penetration of Corona virus to Africa, Health Ministers of the African Union (AU) member states over the weekend held a meeting in Addis Ababa Ethiopia, where they discussed a continental strategy for preparedness and response to the outbreak. During the meeting, AU suggested on the importance of its member states to timely share information to avoid misinformation spread, which cause unnecessary fear amongst the citizens on the virus. The AU Commissioner of Social Welfare, Ms Amira Elfadil said the African Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), for its part, will continue to share useful information as they filter it. According to a statement issued by the Embassy of China in Tanzania over the weekend, as of Saturday, death toll caused by corona virus in China mainland reached 2,345 out of 76,288 cases that had been reported. “20,659 have been cured and discharged from hospital, 53,284 are still under treatment and some 5,365 suspected cases are waiting test results,” read part of the statement. Again, the number of the cured is 9 times that of the fatal ones, according to the official statistics, further noting that as of Saturday, there were 397 new confirmed cases, 109 fatalities, 1,361 new suspected cases and 2,393 cured cases in mainland China. “The cured patients continued to outnumber the new infections for the fourth consecutive day in 18 province-level administrative regions reported, and no new confirmed cases during the past 24 hours, including Shanghai, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Yunnan, Liaoning, among others. In addition, 26,441 close contacts were released from medical observation on Friday with Chinese officials saying that candidate vaccines against the virus are to begin clinical trials as early as late April or May. It was reported that five new effective medicines have started clinical trials, with good progress made up to now. In Tanzania the government assured its citizens that it was on high alert and checking the rapid spread of the virus that has killed thousands of people in China. Minister of Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, said that the authorities has already installed thermal screening facilities at all major airports. The minister said the novel coronavirus has not been detected in the country, however, insisted that the government is taking no chance, adding that screening exercises for incoming passengers at major airports-- Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), Kilimanjaro Airport (KIA) and Mwanza Airport is ongoing. The minister further noted that about 140 medical equipment had been installed at all major airports, borders and ports and being manned by medical experts trained to handle such screening process to reduce the risk of transmission from persons jetting in, and might be infected. Also, the government has already set up the Infectious Diseases Unit (IDU) at Mawenzi in Kilimanjaro, Buswelu in Mwanza and Kigamboni in Dar es Salaam in order to avoid paralysing medical services and as well reduce patients’ congestion at major health facilities in the country.