“WHY a woman never gets satisfied...? Why sex gets more exiting when...? The ‘Marios’ in our society..! Mothers-in-law are the problem in marriages..! A love-affairs-SMS in your husband’s phone could..! Existence of Love affairs between younger men and older women..! Issues of ‘sugar mummies and sugar daddies..! This is the reason why marriages..! Living with a stepchild...” These are among ‘hot topics’ being discussed in WOMEN MATTERS, ‘a sort of breaking taboo’s format’ not only for gossiping around but rather to inform all of us in our society via TV Talk shows (WASAFI) as well as other social media. Ms LILIAN ABELLA MWASHAANTHONY, a courageous, smart and outspoken lady leads the panel of knowledgeable, strong and charismatic ladies among them are: Mama Terry (Youth advisor), Aunty Sadaka (Psychologist), Mama Kaisi, Imelda Mwamanga (Bang magazine Director), Baby Sky (Sisi na Sauti Media). Sometimes, the panel is enriched by prominent psychologists; Dr Chris Mauki, Dr Mwaka, Dr Elli VD Wamianian, Dr Eliud Esseco (also a philosopher) and Max Rioba (Movie content Director) “Well, I ‘m called to help women and serve girls with problems and issues of life! I do all these because I love my country and my President at most. I truly pray for him!” Says the energetic and always fully occupied Lilian Mwasha - Anthony as she justifies her intention and desire to create such shows including ‘DARAJANI with Lillian Mwasha,’ (‘Clouds Plus’ Saturdays morning). Apart from being a committed Radio & TV presenter, the lady fulfils her obligations at home as a wife and mother of four, but also Lilian is a servant of God at the ‘Daughters and Sons of Destiny.’ “Hi, today is my birthday! I was born on the 8th of February 1982, right here in Dar-es-Salaam (Nyanza Street 3, Magomeni area).” Woouh, such a unique surprise! As a role model and a ‘worthy to be illustrated lady,’ she truly deserves happiest birthday wishes! Lilian’s father, Mr Remencere Mwasha, an economist worked at foreign affairs and Mother, Theonestina Kokwenda Mwasha (the first female mineral processing engineer in Tanzania). “A serious ear operation at a younger age, to remedy and restore an unusual inborn defect ended up destroying my chin lower jaw, hence somehow dislocating my mouth.” Lilian’s explanation about this touching incident during my short discussion with her shows the still existing vividness of this whole issue in her memory. “I was laughed and joked around when I was little and this killed my confidence a bit.” Ho wever, just within a few seconds, the real strong and confident Lilian comes back! “But for some reason after I knew my God and realised my purpose, embraced myself and stopped to care about what others thought of me. At last, I ’ve accepted the situation and I love myself and I can confidently stand behind the TV cameras.” Lilian’s formal education began at Muhimbili Primary School until 1989, continuing at the Kilimanjaro Academy for her O-level. There Lilian encountered the legend Mama Maria Kamm, the lady credited for the success of that classic Weruweru. After her short stint in politics until 1992, Mama Kamm went back to lead Kilimanjaro Academy. “She trained us well. We were raised on housework and were taught to love each other. My true friends came from there (Grace Mosha, Sara Koola, Sandra Purucker, Amanda Chris, Chrispin Kinabo, Mboni Kibelloh, Susan Mossi and many others).” For her A-level, Lilian went to St. Mary’s High School in Mbezi. “I was elected to be the head girl and my leadership skills began there…!” Lilian’s charisma and communication ability has earned her more friends and made her admirable throughout. “I had friends who embraced me not as a colleague but a leader and they are still friends to date who believes in my leadership and my Love for God: Mukurasi Kaijage, Adam Mubago, Dianne Mutta, Asia Haidary and Harris Kapiga (my Patron at school, a friend and a mentor in my media life, including TEMINO show at Clouds FM.” During the past 10 years, Lilian has passed through several stations enabling her to acquire more working experience. She began working (2009 - 2011) as Events Manager at the Kilimanjaro Hotel Kempinski. “Note that in between, I ‘ve always been a great event moderator (Mc) and wedding planner.” This was followed by two years working experience as Head of Retention at the Vodacom Tanzania Ltd. Then moved to Head of Sustainability and special projects for another two years at the same company. “Between 2018 - 2019, I was the Head of Customer Relations at Simbanet Tanzania. However, I recently opted to step down and concentrate more on what God has called me to do. ‘to save GOD by touching people’s lives through MEDIA.’” Yes, I do confirm to have watched and admired ‘DARAJANI with Lillian Mwasha,’ (‘Clouds Plus’ Saturdays morning), a show that underlines the above mentioned Lilian’s views, of being a true believer of CHRIST Jesus. “This is the greatest achievement I have in life. My wisdom is not my own but CHRISTS if you take him out of me, I am back to ZERO. He has touched millions through me and I know he will touch so much more.” For over a decade now Lilian is married to Mr Anthony Luvanda, and God has blessed this couple with four children (Tenzi, Shiloh, Grace and Caren). They say, “it can be done, play your part!” No doubt, with such committed personalities and role models, who are playing their part, our country will be leading towards a much brighter future. Come-on Ms LILIAN MWASHAANTHONY, enjoy your birthday, you are absolutely worthy to be illustrated. ● David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/ producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com www. matatizomedia.com