IN my last column on Saturday, this week, I raised the issue of examining ourselves, meaning we Tanzanians, over whether we were doing justice to ourselves as far as sports development in the country is concerned. The question I raised is very critical because you don’t need to be a frequent follower of sports in this country in order to realize that there is something awfully wrong about our preparation for any sports discipline we claim to be well versed in. Today, I would like to share with my readers a sports discipline which has equally a huge following, namely, boxing. Just like any sports discipline, outside soccer, boxing is also one of those sports disciplines in which those involved get no assistance from no one and from nowhere. If you want to be a boxer, then you need to bear one thing in mind, and that’s, you’re on your own. Don’t expect to get assistance from anyone. In short, boxers in Tanzania are self-made. We don’t have monied guys in this country who are ready to sponsor boxers. Almost every monied guy has only one thing going in his mind, soccer. Therefore, if you think I’m pulling your legs, just ask Hassan Mwakinyo. We all know him now, but no one got him where he is today. He made himself, boxing wise, to where he is today. Yet even in boxing, this country could have done better, if our current professional boxers had gone through the amateur rank before turning pro. The other day, one of the best amateur and professional boxers this country has ever produced, Rashid Matumla, laid accent on the importance of our boxers starting from amateur before plunging into professionalism. Unfortunately, many present professional boxers wrote the man off. Yet the truth still remains. If you want to be a good professional boxer, then you need to start from amateur rank where you fight while covering your head with a headgear as you’re trained how to protect your head against jabs and all kind of punches from your opponents. It is in amateur rank where boxers are moulded. And by the time they turn pro, the boys have already turned men. But this is not to say that you cannot go straight into professional ranks and succeed. You can, but to succeed, you need to work extremely hard, the way Hassan Mwakinyo has done. Yet such cases are nothing but exceptional. In fact, for some of us who have watched countless boxing bouts for over 40 years, it is very easy to note Mwakinyo’s weaknesses which are result of having not gone through the amateur rank. But having seen what the absence of amateurism can do to a professional boxer, the question is who is to blame then for that? Just like Athletics Tanzania (AT), it’s the Boxing Federation of Tanzania (BFT), who should be blamed for sleeping on the job. Yes, this is the organisation that should and ought to work overnight to spot out and guide young talents in the boxing ring. But if BFT sleeps on the job, Tanzania will continue to witness hapless boxers who turn into professional boxers not because they have what it takes to survive and succeed, but because they are being influenced by money rather than the game. And the danger of our boys being thrown into professional rank without going through amateur could easily lead to increased deaths in the boxing rings. And I don’t think that is what we want. But if that is not what we want, then we need to push BFT to get up and wake up from their slumber and start doing what they have in the past been known for, the search for new talents. I wouldn’t blame BFT in a way I do with the TFF. This is because BFT used to do wonderful work in the past. And for an organisation that has had neither money nor sponsors, they need a pat on the back, Yet despite being what they are, empty handed, they have produced a couple of medal winners in the past, especially in international boxing tournaments. According to Rashid Matumla, you need to play at least 30 bouts as an amateur boxer in order to succeed in professional boxing. But today we have professional boxers who have played less than 20 bouts, boxers who have straight away gone into boxing pro. We may say whatever we want about such boxers; We can praise them if we want, but such boys are playing with death. Professional boxing is not for learning, but for winning and taking money back home.