THE beautiful country of Tanzania is without a doubt one of the planet’s most amazing and exciting travel destinations. In fact, a trip here deserves a spot on the bucket list of every traveller. It is the kind of experience where you not only get up close to Mother Nature, but also satisfy your cravings for that adrenaline rush and those jaw-dropping sights. Whether it’s your first time or your tenth, Tanzania offers something for everyone, from the towering peaks of Kilimanjaro to the serene blue waters of Zanzibar and everything in between. Following the great migration in Serengeti Serengeti National Park sets the stage for what is perhaps the most dramatic wildlife event in Africa or some may say, even the world. The great migration is a 2,000- km annual odyssey that sees around two million wildebeests, zebras and gazelles as they chase the rains in search of fresh grasslands. It is a dramatic race for life as they are usually accompanied by numerous predators, including lions, cheetahs, hyenas, and even crocodiles looking to take advantage of the mass gathering of prey. There are several Serengeti great migration tours to choose from today, some even offering hot air balloon rides so you can witness this amazing spectacle unfold from the very best seat in the house – the clouds. Sometime between January and March, the great migration enters the calving season where thousands of newborns grace the green plains of the southern Serengeti every day. Definitely one for the books! Exploring the natural wonders of Tanzania’s national parks The African bush is not home to wildebeests and zebras alone.Instead, you are treated to an assortment of wildlife and a dazzling array of Instagram-worthy sceneries. Wake up each day to the sound of melodious birds, breathe in the fresh crisp air, have a picnic in the wilderness, spot elephants, giraffes, ostriches, buffaloes, leopards, warthogs, and hundreds of different bird species. In the evening, settle down to a vivid sundowner recapping your adventures for the day or around the bonfire, drink in hand and listening to the sounds of various animals in the distance. There’s also a variety of cheap accommodation in Serengeti National Park as well as in other nearby parks like Tarangire, Ngorongoro, and Lake Manyara, all offering an authentic way to experience living in the wild. Conquering Mt Kilimanjaro Mount Kilimanjaro is an inactive volcano located in the north-eastern parts of Tanzania and is famous for being Africa’s highest peak at a height of almost 6000 meters above sea level. It is also the highest free-standing mountain in the world, boasting beautiful snow-capped peaks even though it is so close to the equator. Naturally, conquering this impressive mountain remains one of the best things to do in Tanzania. There are different types of tours available depending on your climbing ability and there aren’t many feelings that can rival the thrill of the climb. If you don’t find climbing to be an exciting option, you can always explore the park surrounding the mountain. Connecting with your roots at Olduvai Gorge – the cradle of humankind The Olduvai Gorge is one of the most important archaeological sites on earth, having provided invaluable insight toward furthering our understanding of early human evolution. You’ve probably heard lots of people say mankind originated in Africa, and Olduvai Gorge bears witness to that statement. In addition to the ancient fossils discovered here, archaeologists have also uncovered tools and hunting weapons believed to date as far back as 1.5 million years ago. Experiencing yoga and wellness retreat Tanzania offers some of the most serene settings for a wellness retreat. Take in the amazing landscapes bathed in the warm glow of the African sunrise or sunset as you stretch, meditate, and find your zen. Many tour operators are taking advantage of Tanzania’s bountiful locations that are perfect for yoga and other wellness programs to offer customized itineraries designed to provide a truly relaxing escape for both mind and body. Relaxing on Zanzibar’s magnificent beaches Zanzibar is a unique archipelago of coral islands and home to some of the best beaches in Africa. The islands here are surrounded by miles and miles of white sandy beaches, adorned with swaying coconut palms, mangroves, coral reefs and the stunningly clear turquoise waters of the Indian Ocean. Snorkeling, swimming with dolphins, kitesurfing, boat cruises, and fishing are just a few of the activities you can do here. If you’re up for an excursion, you can check out spice plantations, spot rare animals in Jozani forest or even embark on village rides in Zanzibar on horseback and later take the horses swimming. Zanzibar is hands down the perfect place to end your Tanzanian adventure.