VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has warned CCM members against engaging in squabbles and betrayals, saying the malpractices are detrimental to the party’s wellbeing. The Vice-President sounded the warning yesterday in Kibaha District, Coast Region, where she presided over the colourful ongoing celebrations to mark 43 years of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), an event that attracted regional members from all corners. The Vice-President used the occasion to ask party members to register themselves with the National Electoral Commission (NEC) in its exercise of updating the voters’ register which started on Friday and is expected to end next Thursday. The Vice-President, who also doubles as Coast Region’s CCM guardian, said she was aware of the misunderstandings within the party in the region. “There are shameful acts which are going on among party leaders in this region. I have reports of some individuals who have started conducting campaigns here, a practice which is against ours. As your guardian, I am very saddened by these acts and I want them to stop at once,” she said. Ms Samia expressed dismay over the pace at which CCM in the region was registering members, considering fact that in four years, only 89,517 members joined the party. “This number is not impressive based on the region’s population of about 1.3 million people. More efforts are needed to motivate more people to join the party,” she remarked. For his part, Coast Regional Commissioner Eng Evarist Ndikilo pointed out that during the four-year period, the region experienced many positive changes and improvements in various sectors, including health, industries, infrastructures and education. “We had only six district hospitals in our nine councils but following the release of 14. 63bn/-, two dispensaries, 18 health centres and three district hospitals will be constructed,” he said. On the other hand, the RC said the region was faring well in terms of attracting investments, attracting a total of 30,000 formal job opportunities and 60,000 informal ones. He also thanked the government for the ongoing project of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Hydro Electric Power in Rufiji District, saying that it had created 1,000 jobs. According to the regional commissioner, Coast and Morogoro regions were expected to share a total of 3.7bn/- from the contractor of the project, being part of corporate social responsibility. “We are going to use that money for building and improving our infrastructures, including roads,” he noted. The RC also revealed that the government had released a total of 33.9bn/- to be spent on water projects in the region, pointing out that some of the projects, including the one at Kisarawe which cost 10.6bn/-, started providing water since November last year. The region also implements other water projects in Mkuranga at the cost of 5.6bn/- and Mboga in Chalinze District Council at the cost of 17.7bn/-. Completion of the projects will increase water availability from the current 66.4 per cent to 70 per cent. Deputy Minister for Energy, Ms Subira Mgalu told the audience that the ministry, through the Rural Energy Authority (REA), is intending to connect power to all villages and streets by 2021. It is expected that a total of 162 streets in the region will benefit from the programme.