THE government has continued to open up Kigoma Region by extending the region’s road network to other parts of the country and the neighbouring countries in the Great Lakes Region by constructing a 260km-road from Kabingo-Manyovu at a cost of 340.2bn/-under the funding of the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the government of Tanzania. The project, whose deal was signed on Thursday, will be constructed in four sections and it is expected to be completed within 36 months (three years). The signing event of the long waited project whose completion would easy movement of people, business in the region and provide link from Kigoma to other nearby regions such as Tabora, Katavi and Kagera as well as the border countries of Burundi and the Democratic republic of Congo (DRC) and goods, was live broadcast from Kigoma by local television stations. Speaking at the event, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroads), Engineer Patrick Mfugale said the first part will cover 68.28 Kilometers from Kasulu junction to Manyovu at a cost of 76.17, and it will be constructed by Zhejiang Communications Construction Group from China. The second part will be from Kanyani junction to Mvugwe 70km at a cost of 83.74bn/-to be constructed by the Chinese firm, Sinohydro. “The third lot of the project is to Mvugwe to Ndutwa junction (59.3 km) at a cost of 84.75bn/-that will also cover the cost of constructing one big bridge along the Malagarasi River,” he said. Another Chinese firm, China Henan International Cooperation (Chico) will undertake the fourth lot is for the Ndutwa junction to Kabingo (62.5km) at a cost of 95.5bn/-. The Tanroads boss asked the contractors to deliver the projects on time, insisting that the agency would ensure that the roads are built at international standards. Minister of Works, Transport and Communications Isack Kamwelwe, who was the guest of honor at the event, assured the government’s commitment to upgrade infrastructure in the region, whose network of tarmac roads so far stands at 268km. “The government is aware of the importance of this road to the economy of Kigoma Region and the country at large, I am happy that today we are handing over the sites to contractors for execution,” he noted.