THE National Sports Council (NSC) was today supposed to have completed its probe, after consultation with the TFF on why there were massive complaints, especially by small clubs, in the on-going premier league. The NSC had been given three days, starting Thursday this week, by the minister responsible for, among other things, sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe to tell him why clubs were complaining against poor refereeing. I’m cock sure, my friend, Mwakyembe knows why clubs are complaining. But he decided to task both the NSC and TFF because they don’t seem to be concerned with the mess that has been going on in soccer. Simply put, they are in deep slumber. Yes, these complaints are not new. There have been there since time immemorial. Yet countless NSC and TFF have remained mum, leaving the aggrieved to complain in silence. If you don’t believe in what I have just said, consider what the TFF did just a day ago. They punished the referee who had officiated the Simba, Namungo match for bad officiating. Now my guess is as good as yours. They did that just to wash their hands. The incident took place before Mwakyembe ordered the NSC to help him. Why did they not act then? Had Mwakyembe not tasked the NSC, the TFF would not have done what they did on Thursday this week. The question is, have they just realized now the nature of the rot? The question is; why did they have to do what they did now? In that match, it was clear the referee was biased against Namungo. The same thing happened a day later between Young Africans and Lipuli. That match should have ended in a two all draw. But the referee, for reasons best known to himself, not only ruled out Lipuli’s goal, but went on to do the unthinkable! He allowed a corner kick to be taken against Yanga after Yanga’s goalkeeper had got hold of the ball inside his own net! Now to allow a corner kick to be taken when the ball incident happened inside the goal is to accept that the ball went in, and pointing to the middle of the pitch for re-starting the match would have been the right decision, but not, for heavens’ sake, a corner kick. I personally expected the same TFF to have punished the referee for ruling out Lipuli’s goal. But they have not done that. What is interesting is that referees are biased when Yanga and Simba are involved. And they always seem to be protecting the big guns who don’t need protection. And this is the question that Mwakyembe seems to be very much interested in. Yes, why are there increased complaints by small clubs in the on-going premier league? The minister, who is not only a lawyer, but also a former don at the School of Law at the University of Dar es Salaam, has repeatedly called on the PCCB to take a hard look in the country’s football. Corruption in Tanzania’s soccer is not only stinking, but to quote a South African television journalist, JJ Tabane, is bad; A crying shame. Both clubs have foreign, highly experienced coaches. Yet, it seems, they must repeatedly be assisted by referees to win matches they should have lost. Just the other day, Simba’s investor, Mohamed Dewji complained that he had spent four billion Tanzanian shillings in players’ salaries and yet the team continues to lose matches they should have comfortably won. Interestingly, some people, including Simba fans had the audacity to tell the young businessman that he should not complain about four billion Tanzanian shillings. What these people don’t know is that Mo is a businessman and cannot remain silent when players are not being responsible when it comes to putting their all in the game. But when you look critically, there is more than what meets the eye over Mo’s complaints. In fact, you don’t need to be a professional footballer to know that Simba’s present outfit is weaker than the team the club had last season when they went past the group stages of the continent’s Champions League. The question is why has the club weaker players than what they had last season? Of course, you cannot blame Mo. He is not responsible for recruiting players. Fill in the dot, old boy! That is Tanzania’s soccer, at its best, nothing to write home about. But one thing is crystal clear, it’s an ailing game which is not yet out of the woods. It has remained stuck in the mud since the day the third phase President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, described it as the head of a madman with which people learn to shave in order to become barbers. A week or two ago, I wrote in these columns that I did not understand why I was not seeing my country’s referees officiating in 2019 AFCON finals and other top flight continental soccer tournaments. I have seen referees from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and even Burundi officiate in those tournaments. But not Tanzanian referees. Why? Could the kind of officiating we have been witnessing in the premier league be one of the reasons why they have not been considered by CAF and FIFA for such matches?