LOCAL government leaders in the country have been warned against serving as agents of selling land to avoid fuelling conflicts between the public and government institutions. Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Abdallah Ulega sounded the warning during his tour at Tanzania Veterinary Laboratory Agency (TVLA) offices in Tanga Region. “Some areas are designated not to benefit the few but the nation at large, thus local leaders should not champion some areas to be divided to benefit a few, just like Mivumoni area is charged with the mandate to perform research on all Vector and Vector-Borne Diseases in the country,” he said. Mr Ulega further warned herders and farmers to stop invading the area as it was set aside since the first phase government for the purpose of conducting research for the benefit of the nation and the African continent at large. He further said that for those claiming that the area was too big for that task and should be divided, they are ignorant as such research requires big reserves for pests such as tsetse flies, they can reproduce and give chance to scientist to come up with the best approach to destroy them. Earlier, TVLA Manager Dr Amni Malele explained to the land conflict between the institute and community members. Dr Malele said the main challenge they face was a land invasion, whereby out of their 7,000 hectares, they had remained with 5,320. “We divided the area to herders and farmers yet they are still invading the area, so far more than 1,000 hectares have been invaded,” he said. He said in response to the raid, the agency had partnered with Pangani District to demarcate boundaries and remove the invaders. Pangani District Commissioner Ms Zainab Abdallah said the government supports research activities conducted by TVLA. The area is also used for practical lessons for students who are undertaking livestock industry sector studies from various universities in the country. Chairperson for pastoralists in Mivumoni Ward, Ramadhani Mshana, requested the deputy minister to agree to the land division, to avoid antagonism. The deputy minister is in Tanga for a three-day official visit to inspect activities conducted in farming and fishing sectors.