MEMBERS of Parliamentary Standing Committees showered praise on Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) for a good job it has been doing to promote investments in the country. Speaking during the Investment Seminar organised by the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) for 12 Parliamentary Standing Committees members here over the weekend, some of the members said the investment laws require review to enable the centre to perform its duties professionally without any interference from other institutions. “You are doing a very good job no doubt about it. You are sometimes getting frustrated by intervening in government institutions, when exercising your duties,” Legislator Lucy Mayenga said, adding that the review of the current law will have a greater impact on investments inflow in the country. Ms Mayenga said TIC should be given the mandate to coordinate and promote all issues related to investments and if there are other intervening institutions, they should communicate with the centre before they face investors. On his part, Legislator, Godbless Lema said the new investment law would be a panacea of confusions among government institutions on how best to deal with investment matters, where TIC would also stand in a very better position to perform its duties. “Personally, I recognize the good work being done by the centre in promoting and attracting investments, but sometimes some government institutions let them down as a result of the current investment law,” Mr Lema explained. The Vice-Chairman of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Budget, Mr Mashimba Ndaki called upon the government to work on the amendments of the law to cope with the speed of the fifth phase government under the stewardship of President John Pombe Magufuli. “We are proud of TIC job. The amendment of the current law will boost investments growth in the country,” Mr Ndaki said, while calling for a review of the law for the betterment of investments inflow in Tanzania. Presenting a paper before the committees’ members, TIC Executive Director, Geoffrey Mwambe said the centre has been tasked by the government to supervise and promote investments in production industries and add value to all sectors of the economy. Mr Mwambe named the top ten countries leading in investments between 1990 and 2018 as China, United Kingdom, United States of America, Mauritius, India, Australia, Kenya, Netherlands, Belgium and Egypt. Earlier in her closing remarks, the Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office tasked for Investment Portfolio, Ms Angellah Kairuki thanked the committees’ members for their useful contributions, saying that they would be accommodated. “The new investment law will broaden the investment space in the country. I am optimistic that the members got a splendid opportunity to hear and interact with TIC senior officials,” Minister Kairuki explained. However, Ms Kairuki asked the members to continue supporting measures being taken by the government, saying that the fifth phase government is transforming the country’s economy and turning Tanzania into medium size and industrial base economy