THE government says engagement with stakeholders is at an advanced stage to ensure private companies’ drivers get legally bidding employment contracts is vital. The government has met with the drivers’ association, workers union and owners of transport companies and agreed on the best modalities to ensure the cadre has employment contracts as well as labour requirement benefits. Moreover, agreement and deadline to that effect has been reached whereby the government will soon conduct inspections to see how best the agreements are implemented to ensure the drivers have the documents, the Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office Responsible for Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled, Anthony Mavunde told the Parliament. He gave the clarification when reacting to a supplementary question from Mr Stanslaus Mabula (Nyamagana-CCM) who said despite the good work done by the drivers especially of the commuter and upcountry bus drivers, most of them did not have employment contracts. Mr Mabula wanted the government to explain the strategy they have to formalise the cadre so that they enjoy the benefit as it is the case with those in the public sector as having deductions sent to pension funds. The deputy minister said they have met with the owners and drivers association representatives and come with a labour guide to formalise the cadre employment. “We have given them a deadline to ensure the employment contracts are signed after which the government will conduct inspection and take proper measures to the offenders,” said Mr Mavunde. In the main question, Ms Grace Tendega (Special Seats-Chadema) wanted to know how far implementation of President John Magufuli’s directive to send youngsters engaged in the pool table game and hanging idly on streets to send special farming production camps. She also wanted to know the number of camps that are on the list for the purpose as well the plans that are afoot to end the tendency of youth hanging around idly while they are an essential production workforce. Answering, Mr Mavunde said in collaboration with the regional administration and local government authorities, they have set aside special areas covering 217,882.36 acres countrywide meant for farming, livestock farming, fishing, industries and small and medium business operations. In addressing unemployment especially among youths, Mr Mavunde said the government is running a number of projects that aims at empowering youths with the needed skills and capital to set up employment projects. The deputy minister said in the ending financial year, the government has offered apprenticeship skills training to more than 49,265 youths. Moreover, they have also set in place a conducive investment environment to attract investors to set up projects which will create employment opportunities for many Tanzanians.