A CONTRACTOR entrusted to construct a 1.2km-road section between Nyerere Bridge and Ferry-Kibada has complied with President John Magufuli’s directive to resume the work with immediate effect. Hardly a week, the company, China Railway Construction Engineering Group (CRCEG) resumed work on the road yesterday after the ultimatum to resolve a contractual dispute they had and complete the road project. Speaking at a function to inaugurate Kigamboni District Offices, President Magufuli expressed discontent with the delay of the project due to cost implications. In a press statement issued yesterday CRCEG said: “We wish to express our sincere appreciation and our commitment to fully supporting the spirit of ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’ and ‘law abidance’ reinforced by His Excellency, Dr John Pombe Magufuli, President of the United Republic of Tanzania, to complete the project with high quality and reasonable cost without delay.” The contractor stated that the project was delayed partly because of late possession of the site due to pending compensation for existing houses, graveyard and structures that were located within the right of way. Compensation was completed towards the end of May 2018. NSSF (the employer)’s delay to re-appoint a new project manager has been given as another reason for the delay in the resumption of the work. Whereas previous project managers suspended their supervision services on May 1, 2019 the new manager was appointed only last week. “It’s only on February 14, 2020 that the employer informed the contractor of the decision to appoint Tanroad as the new project manager who commences work on February 17, 2020,” said the CRCEG statement. Other reasons given for the delay included late payment to the contractor “in an unreasonably long time which made the contractor’s cash flow jammed” and delayed approvals for the cost of relocation and protection of infrastructure for service utilities located within the right of way, including Tazama Oil Pipeline, HASS Oil Pipeline, MOIL oil pipelines and TIPER Water Supply Pipeline. Delayed approval for the cost of Tanesco power lines was cited as another reason for the delay of the project. In the meantime, CRCEG has stated that one of the reasons for cost increment of the works was the fact that the road standard applied is the express way standard “which is the highest in Tanzania.” The cost also increased because there were several areas that were affected by oil residue, thus compelling huge and deep excavation to replace all oil contaminated soil. CRCEG further stated that road passed through swampy areas, necessitating excavation and the removal of soil materials in swampy areas and replacing the same with rockfill, as part of mechanical stabilisation. There was also the additional cost of relocation and protection of infrastructure for service utilities located within the right of way, which were all approved by the employer. The contractor also accused the employer of delaying payments, something which “unnecessarily” attracted the interest. There was also excavation to remove unsuitable organic soil material and replace it with inorganic soil, as well as additional works and re-measurement of the true and real quantity on-site, that is outlets structure for storm water drainage originally omitted in the Bill of Quantities. The project was suspended in December 31, 2018 following instructions issued by the project manager, pending the resolution of some issues, including approvals of additional work items by the employer with further notification that: “Pending approvals have not been issued to date,” according to the contractor.