HEADS of State from the six East African Community (EAC) partner states will convene in Arusha later this month for the 21st Ordinary Summit. The EAC Secretariat has already sent invitations to the member countries for the awaited summit scheduled for February 29. “The summit is still on as planned as we look forward to the full representation and participation of the member states,” disclosed EAC Media Coordinator Florian Mutabazi in a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday. Though he would not disclose the agenda of the meeting, Mr Mutabazi hinted that a raft of issues, including the envisioned East African Monetary Union (EAMU), would dominate the Arusha summit. The meeting of the six EAC leaders could possibly delve on the upcoming general election in Tanzania and Burundi scheduled for May and October this year respectively. EAC Secretariat’s confirmation on the upcoming Heads of State Summit comes four months after the postponement of the initial meeting that was scheduled for November 30 last year, but failed to take place due to lack of quorum. The summit also comes at a time when the Regional Economic Community is grappling with lack of commitment demonstrated by some of the EAC member states in remitting their financial obligations to the secretariat. This has indeed become an Achilles heel to the 20- year old regional intergovernmental organisation of six Partner States, with some of its organs calling for addressing of the dire financial crisis facing the regional bloc. Last year, the East African Civil Society Organisations Forum (EACSOF) filed its petition before the East African Legislative Assembly (Eala) to rectify the situation. EACSOF had in the petition made a number of prayers for consideration by the Assembly on matters it deemed of concern to itself and the citizens of the region. The petition signed by its acting Executive Director Martha Makenge avers two critical matters on the implementation of the budget of the EAC after being passed by Eala and assented to by the summit and on the implementation of the Customs Union and the Common Market Protocols with specific focus on the implementation of Article 24 of the Customs Union Protocol (on the EAC Trade Remedies Committee).