THE Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa, is expected to arrive today in Kagera for a two-day visit, Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti has announced. According to the RC, the Premier will arrive at Bukoba Airport at around 9.30 a.m. in an entourage focusing mainly on party activities. “After his arrival at Bukoba Airport, the PM will chair a meeting to be attended by members of the Regional Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Executive Committee. Other details will be released later,” said Brig Gen Gaguti. However, he appealed to the residents to turn up in big numbers at the BukobaAirport to welcome him. Meanwhile, on 14th August, last year Mr Majaliwa  invited investors both local and foreign to invest in Kagera Region mostly in medium and large scale processing and construction  industries  due to the area’s conducive environment and political tranquility in the country. He said that Kagera is strategically located and geographically shares borders with four countries-Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Kenya across Lake Victoria with a population market of 190 million. Expounding, he asked the residents to grab the opportunity and invest especially in hospitality industry, where traders from the Lake Zone of Kagera, Geita, Mwanza, Simiyu, Mara and Kigoma may put up while in their businesses in the area. The Premier, while opening Kagera Week exhibitions at Gymkhana Grounds in Bukoba Municipal Council, further said that upgrading Ibanda, Rumanyika and Burigi Chato National Parks was a golden opportunity for Tanzanians to benefit from by building local Five Star Hotels. “However, the private sector through Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (TCCIA), should have close links with their counterparts in Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The government is prepared to assist such investors and my office is open 24 hours, where any investor who encounters a problem is welcome and should contact me anytime," he said. Mr Majaliwa that said over 95 percent of the roads, however have been to tarmac level, besides major improvements in Hospitals, Health Centres and Dispensaries constructions, adding that all these are aimed attracting investors.  