TWO Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) that propagate democracy and activism in Tanzania - Centre for Strategies Litigation Limited and Change Tanzania Limited- have lost the case they had lodged before the High Court to challenge an earlier decision of being deregistered from the register of companies. Judge Steven Magoiga ruled against the two applicants after upholding one ground of objection raised by the respondents in the matter, the Attorney General (AG), Registrar of Companies and Registrar of Non Governmental Organisations (NGO). He ruled that the prayers sought by the applicants were untenable as the matter had been overtaken by the events. “I find the instant application misconceived and untenable in the circumstances and renders the (same) incompetent. The application is accordingly struck out,” the judge declared. In the application, the applicants had applied for ex-parte order of maintaining the status quo of their registration under the Companies Act and that the court should issue mandatory restorative orders against the respondents and restore the registration of the applicants registered under the Act. The applicants also sought for orders that the court should issue injunction against the respondents or their agents, assignees, workers or employees from implementation of provisions under the Companies Act, the Non-Governmental Organization Act, the Societies Act and Trustees Incorporation Act. During hearing of the ground of objection raised, Principal State Attorney Stanley K alokola, for the respondents, had argued that the impugned Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act, 2019 which the applicants seek to challenge was already in force. He submitted that the President assented the laws since June 30, 2019, thus, the order for maintenance of status quo became futile for being overtaken by events and their failure to comply with the Act they were by operation of the law deregistered from the Registrar of Companies. In his ruling, the judge pointed out that having considered the nature of prayers sought, he fully agreed with the state attorney that they were not tenable in the circumstances, as are barred under the provisions of section 8 (4) of the Basic Rights and Duties Enforcement Act. It reads, “(.......) the provisions of Part VII of the Law Reforms (Fatal Accident and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, which relate to procedure for and power of High Court to issue prerogative orders shall not apply for purposes of obtaining redress in respect of matters covered by this Act.” Having regards to the said provision, he was satisfied that the arguments by counsel for the applicants that so long as there is breach then the court has to entertain is less convincing and is devoid of any useful legal backup. “I am fortifies with my stance because the applicants’ counsel appears to have failed to take into cognizance of the assented law and its effect and how to go about. The only way to deal with a law that has come into force is by way of challenging its constitutionality and not otherwise,” the judge said.