FOOTBALL l agents in the country have been urged to venture in women football and open up a channel for Tanzanian women to play professional football outside the country. The call was made yesterday in Dar es Salaam by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Marketing Manager Aaron Nyanda who insisted that women football in the country is growing fast towards international level. “We are making big success in women football and I am sure that for the first time, our flag will be flown high in the world cup contest bearing in mind that two of our national women teams are on the fast track to qualify for the women’s World Cup slot,” he said. He added that if they manage to qualify in the World Cup level competition, it will be an essential platform for them to be seen by more football agents operating on the world scene thereby fishing some of the decorated women players to play professional football outside the nation. Again, the federation’s marketing boss hailed good works performed by the country’s football governing body to uplift football standards from the foundation level a thing he said is crucial towards the smooth development of football insisting that in the grassroot level, real talent is sourced there. In the same matter, Nyanda urged more fans to come in their big numbers on Sunday when the country’s Under-17 women’s team host Uganda in the first leg battle of the 2020 Women’s World Cup qualifiers whose finals will be staged in India late this year. “The road to World Cup qualification begins on Sunday as such, people should come up to rally behind their team with entry charges pegged at 2000/- for VIP A while occupants of VIP B and C will pay 1000/- only whereas ordinary seats are free of charge,” he said. The home team under the tutelage of Bakari Shime will be compelled to win with a big margin so as to be comfortable during the return leg match which will be played in Kampala, Uganda on March 14th. As the Under-17 preps for Uganda test, their sisters’ Under-20 side will have a tough two legged assignment against Senegal in the 2020 African Under-20 Women’s World Cup qualifiers. The first encounter will be played in Senegal on March 20th while the reverse tie will be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on March 27th. However, some pundits have asked TFF to look for extra sponsors to help in the smooth running of the Serengeti Women’s Football League which lately has only one official sponsors. They also called for the women’s league to be broadcast live on Television so that many people.