THE Member of Parliament (MP) for Ndanda constituency in Mtwara Region on a Chadema ticket, Mr Cecil Mwambe, defected from the main opposition party CHADEMA (Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo) yesterday and rejoined the ruling Chama cha Mapinduzi - CCM. He made the revelation at a media briefing session at the CCM Sub Head Office of CCM Headquarters along Lumumba Street. Speaking in the presence of the ruling party’s Secretary for Publicity and Ideology Humphrey Pole Pole, Mr Mwambe complained about what he termed as lack of democratic ideals within the party with which he had parted ways. He attributed his decision to ill-feelings generated within Chadema, after he had declared interest in contesting the party’s national chairmanship. Mr Mwambe said that after considerable soul searching, he had drawn the conclusion that his determination to build a strong, democratic and patriotic opposition was a futile exercise, virtually similar to trying to operate an engine without fuel. Mr Mwambe’s defection comes close on the heels of the recent U-turn staged by one time premier Frederick Sumaye to rejoin CCM. Both defectors had assumed the chairmanship posts in southern and coastal zones, respectively. “The journey of building a democratic opposition in the country is yet to start; over the years, we have totally failed to build a credible opposition for pushing Tanzania’s development,” he said, adding: “Selfishness is rife, and as is the tendency to tarnish the image of those of us who seek to use our democratic rights to vie for leadership positions and give constructive criticism within the party.” Mr Mwambe further complained that, after expressing an interest in contesting Chadema’s chairmanship, he became a target of hostile attacks via social media platforms. To his utter surprise and anguish, he said, “The top party leadership did not sanction my attackers over a move that I had made and was within my democratic rights. This obviously raises eyebrows, because if it could happen to me, what about an ordinary party member?” Mr Mwambe assured Ndanda voters and Mtwara Region residents at large that he would be in the front seat of cooperating with them for driving the development agenda, under the auspices of CCM as a well-established, focused party. For his part, Mr Polepole, who enthusiastically welcomed Mr Mwambe, said the country was still undergoing a crisis when it comes to building a strong, democratic and credible opposition. Over the past four past years, eight Chadema members of parliament defected to CCM, two were stripped of their legislative status over irregularities and one died in office. MPs who defected (their constituencies in brackets) are Joseph Mkundi (Ukerewe, Mwanza), Ryoba Marwa (Serengeti, Mara), Paulina Gekul (Babati Urban, Manyara), James Ole Milya (Simanjiro, Manyara), Dr Aloyce Godwin Mollel (Siha, Kilimanjaro), Julius Laizer Kalanga (Monduli, Arusha), and Mwita Waitara Mwikwabe (Ukonga, Dar es Salaam). Those who lost their legislative status over absconding were Tundu Lissu (Singida East) and Joshua Nassary (Arumery East). Samson Kasuku Bilago (Buyungu, Kigoma) died in office, while in the subsequent by elections, the vacant seats were retained by CCM. This, makes chadema remain with only 24 elected representatives out of 35 who won in the 2015 general elections.