YOUNG Africans Assistant Coach, Charles Boniface Mkwasa conceded that the road towards the Mainland Premier League title is getting narrow for them after a 1-1 draw with Polisi Tanzania at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi on Wednesday. Tariq Seif headed in from a close range to give his team a lead in the first half but the hosts responded back positively in the second half courtesy of Sixtus Sabilo who had a good game on the day as the Jangwani Street lads continue to lose ground in the title race. It was Yanga’s third straight draw in the top flight and Luc Eymael charges have since dropped six points, which could have helped them to get close to runaway league leaders Simba SC. Up next, Yanga face Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Sunday as they still search for their next win to end three matches winless run. Speaking at a post-match interview, Mkwasa said the three draws in a row have made the road towards the title chase at the end of the season narrow. “We lost concentration in the second half to clear the corner kick which consequently gave them an equalising goal. We had all the qualities to win the match but the mistake we made was capitalised as an advantage for them. Indeed, the road to the title chase is becoming narrow for us,” he said. Moreover, Mkwasa attacked the nature of the pitch, saying it deprived them an opportunity to display their usual quick attacking football, while aiming to get back to winning ways against Coastal Union. On his part, the team’s midfield maestro Haruna Niyonzima said they are still on the battlefield such that they will fight to the end. “We are still together with our fans since our vision is to continue fighting for the team,” Niyonzima, who missed the past barren draw against Tanzania Prisons at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam due to illness, said. Also, skipper Papy Tshishimbi blamed the pitch for their third straight draw, saying it was not friendly for them to claim crucial three points from the resilient Polisi Tanzania side. “We started the first half on high tempo which enabled us to get the leading goal but in the second half, our opponents came refreshed to use their home territory well by scoring the equalising goal,” he said. On his part, Polisi Tanzania Captain, Iddy Mobby said he was thankful to attain one point against Y anga even though their target and approach was to win the match. “We could have won by two goals but the referee rejected one of the goals we scored…r egardless, we are contented with a point against a team of Yanga stature,” he said. With the outcome, Yanga have since surrendered the third slot to Namungo FC despite both sides claiming 40 points with the Lindi based club enjoying good goal advantage. On the other hand, Polisi Tanzania occupies 8th place on the ladder with 34 points after 23 outings and look to be safe from the relegation battle.