POLICE in the Special Tarime Rorya Zone in Mara Region have arrested several people suspected to have been involved in the murder of a primary school teacher before dumping her body in a car in Sirari town at the Tanzanian-Kenyan border. The middle-aged Sirari primary school teacher identified as Rose Gulinja, went missing last week, prompting her colleagues and police to start searching for her. Her body was found dumped in her car at the border police. An autopsy has already been conducted on the body, which has been handed over to her relatives for burial. Tarime DC Mtemi Msafiri told hundreds of mourners who gathered at Sirari grounds to pay their last respects that the police were working around the clock to arrest those responsible for the heinous crime. She assured wananchi that their lives and property were protected. ‘’I assure the public and law abiding citizens gathered here that no stone will be left unturned while the police were seriously investigating the crime which has left the education sector in panic and robbed the students of a committed teacher,” he noted. He said while several suspects had been arrested for interrogation in an operation involving security organisations that include Kenyan detectives, the public has been asked to provide any information on other accomplices’ whereabouts. The DC assured teachers and other public servants stationed in the district to continue their teaching and general activities as well as responsibilities because the security organs were committed to provide security to the public without fear or favor. On Wednesday, the Tarime/ Rorya zonal RPC William Mkondya told reporters that police were still actively investigating the cause of the slain teacher. ‘’We cannot release the suspects’ names, but some of them will be taken to court possibly next week to be charged with the crime once the police complete investigations,” said the RPC. The RPC revealed that police investigators were reaching out to all possible clues and interrogating local people adjacent to the scene in the area for tips but many were reluctant to speak to officers. He urged workers in the area to be extra-cautious when entering strange residential premises at the border and asked people who live near the crime scenes to report any suspicious activities to the police.