MINISTER of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Investment) Angellah Kairuki has directed the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) to work closely with Mara Region in implementing the guidelines for attracting investments and creating a conducive climate for doing of business. She said the government is keen in seeing both public and private sectors play a critical role in promoting investment and business in the region and the country as a whole. The minister made the directive during a joint meeting that brought together the public and private sectors in the region. Mara Regional Chairman of the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) Boniphace Ndengo said the government has shown the way in facilitating trade and creating a good environment for doing business. He said that was the first meeting for him to see a minister and two deputy ministers participate devote their time to discuss the importance of creating a good environment for attracting investments. “This was a meeting that discussed issues openly and in depth. We discussed frankly the complexities, the problems and the challenges that have always stood in the way of attracting investments and doing business in our region. There was vivid sincerity in having all the issues cleared,” he said. “We have faith in this government and in its determination to create an environment conducive to doing business and attracting investments into this region.” “I have never seen ministers sharing a table and finding solutions to problems put before the meeting. The meeting was a proof of the sincerity of the government when it talks about promoting investments and an enabling environment for doing business. We shall cooperate with the government in implementing development objectives,” he pledged. Deputy Finance Minister Ashatu Kijaji and Deputy Minister for Trade and Industry Stella Manyanya also attended the meeting which adopted guidelines for attracting investments in Mara Region. Mara Regional Commissioner Adam Malima said the gathering presented members of the business community a good opportunity to present their grievances so that they could be solved by the government. He identified key sectors of economy, saying that they need to be fully utilized to stimulate economic growth in his region. “It is high time to create wealth and wellbeing of our people if all these investment and business opportunities are fully exploited. I am confident that through these consultative meetings we can move forward,” Malima said. TIC Lake Zone Manager Pendo Gondwe promised to ensure that investments and business opportunities in Mara Region were posted on the TIC website. “I am happy to see the government and members of business community meeting to discuss the removal of bottlenecks frustrating investment and business growth in the region. The region has a lot of opportunities,” she said.