THE Tanzania Postal Corporation (TPC) has been directed to address business setbacks that obstruct them in offering quality services and maximise profit. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communications Isack Kamwelwe issued the directives after launching the six-member TPC Board of Directors in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. “It is my hope that the new board members will help the corporation to improve its performance as they are experienced in management of various public and private entities, especially in structural matters, human resources management and staff recruitment issues,” he said. He said the board is an important and supportive tool for TPC’s contribution to the development in the country, therefore they must oversee the implementation of its strategic and business plans and provide concrete guidelines and coordinate TPC activities to ensure its sustainability and to protect the interests of the government and those of the general public. Mr Kamwelwe also said that the effective TPC will relieve Tanzanians tediousness in transporting parcels, letters and therefore promote economic development as the country gears to the middle income economy status. “TPC has already established forex shops in all regions and wishes to see the new critically setting plans for all parcels and letters to be sent and received through TPC which is a trusted government entity with audited reports and therefore promote development,” he added. For his part, the Postmaster General, Mr Hassan Mwang’ombe said in the two past consecutive years, TPC which was once bedridden, has made a profit and provided dividends to the government and obtained an auditor’s clean certificate. He said that the main target was for TPC to embrace ICT infrastructures to modernize its activities and that it is currently transporting its own cargo using postal trucks to various regions of the country. “Apart from these improvements, in realizing the importance of Human resources for efficiency functioning, TPC has currently increased its salaries by 70 to 100 per cent,” he said. The newly inaugurated board of directors chaired by Dr Haruni Kondo who’s post has been extended for the second term by President John Magufuli along with other five members and will last for the next three years.