MAINLAND Premier League giants Simba and Young Africans will be in action today facing Lipuli FC and Tanzania Prisons respectively as the marathon towards the title race continue to take shape. Leaders Simba take on Lipuli at Samora Stadium in Iringa with a positive mood after thrashing Mtibwa Sugar 3-0 in their previous league match at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro last Tuesday. The defending champions displayed quality football to shrug off the 1-0 loss they suffered from JKT Tanzania prior to their Morogoro trip, hence had to use all available tricks in football to emerge big winners on the day. Skipper John Bocco, Hassan Dilunga and Mohammed Hussein helped to restore Simba’s winning formula as they aim to claim the title three times in a row. A win today will see the Msimbazi Street giants stretching their lead at the top of the pyramid to 56 points after 22 outings, while if the ninth placed Lipuli win, they will bag in 29 points from 21 matches. In reference to recently made remarks from Simba Communication Officer Haji Manara, the team’s target is to win the silverware with a record of minimum 100 points. On the other hand, third placed Yanga have a tricky puzzle to solve as they entertain Tanzania Prisons at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in a pick of the day fixture. Yanga will be eager to claim crucial three points after being held to a disappointing 1-1 draw against Mbeya City at the same venue on Tuesday in which, the hosts came from behind to equalise an own goal by defender Lamine Moro. Bernard Morrison headed in the leveller midway into the second half to enable his side secure a point from resilient Mbeya City, who are fighting hard to escape relegation. The two teams will be meeting for third time this season, with Yanga winning two encounters hence today’s clash can go either side depending on how each team will approach the battle. Their first game was in the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) at Samora Stadium in Iringa where Yanga won 1-0 before they met in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) at the National Stadium in the city, which ended 2-0 in favour of the Jangwani based side. Speaking recently ahead of the match, Yanga Assistant Coach Charles Boniface Mkwasa admitted that facing Tanzania Prisons is always a difficult game for Yanga. “We respect them a lot because they are a competitive team...we beat them twice this season but that does not mean they are an easy side to play against. In both matches, it was not easy for us to post victories but in the end, we had positive results,” Mkwasa said. Also, the team’s playmaker Haruna Niyonzima said every match for them is like finale as such, they are now taking each encounter seriously not underrating any opponent. “We know that Tanzania Prisons have a good team but we will fight to get maximum points to continue ascending at the top of the league ladders,” said the Rwandan player. Elsewhere today, second placed Azam FC will host Coastal Union, while KMC will battle it up against Polisi Tanzania as Mwadui entertains Namungo at Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga. Also, Kagera Sugar will be at home facing Mbao, whereas at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro, Mtibwa Sugar will take on JKT Tanzania. Ruvu Shooting host Mbeya City, while Biashara United will be at Karume Stadium in Musoma inviting Alliance FC