A WOMAN is like a tea bag, you never know how strong she is until she gets in hot water, said Eleanor Roosevelt, the longestserving First Lady of the United States of America - March 4, 1933 to April 12, 1945. I agree. Eleanor is absolutely right. No wonder why many tend not see the hidden strength in women. This is not as it should be. Unfortunately, we praise women and forget them quite easily and quickly. We have always credited them for what they do as they wonderfully continue to bring gains for all, but we are, by and large, still struggling in our journey as nations earnestly seeking to help them. Africa’s women are strong. They play an important role as drivers of change on the continent. Melinda Gates, an American philanthropist and a former general manager at Microsoft and co-founder of the Bill & Melinda Gates F oundation affirms; a woman with a voice is by definition a strong woman. But the search to find that voice can be remarkably difficult. As it is well known, our mothers, sisters and aunts form groups which are and shall continue to be the solution to the local problems across Africa. And when they appear to fail in what they do, it is because there is little or rather limited support they receive, hence their inability to address both urban and rural problems. This we say because, when well empowered, women have evidently played rightful roles in all spheres of life. Generally speaking therefore, it is not wrong to say women are special as the world acknowledges this submission. No wonder why, in this special and rather unique situation, Diane Mariechild, the author of Mother Wit and Inner Dance suggests; a woman is the full circle. Within her is the power to create, nurture and transform. Women are unique. In fact, and to a more positive note, it is agreed by many in the public square, that the level of participation of women in the economic activity of any country is an indicator of potential economic growth performance. Sadly, despite their fundamental socio-economic responsibilities, in most countries, women still have less access to knowledge, land, credit, inputs and financial services and participation in decision-making. My plea is to see women across the continent fully empowered in all spheres. My cry is to see women enjoying equal social, political and economic rights. They deserve the rights to own and inherit property, sign contracts, register and manage businesses. Additionally, we know that their space in the public square remains small or limited, meaning there is still much to be done so as to really have them on board because, in my view, they hold a major share when it comes to understanding keys to helping Africa step out on to the world stage. Even though our common song about them stand out high and has always been characterised by a special call to ensure their full and effective participation in both the economic and political systems, yet they remain, both historically and currently on the list of marginalized group. But my message to my leader today is not about where we have missed the point, but rather to remind the general public that empowering women, holds the key to the future of our continent. So based on our proposal, to help Africa step out on to the world stage we should empower women, and the key question is; what then should we do to see this vision or call bearing fruit? Well there is so far a lot that nations can do. In fact there is also much going on and slowly bearing fruit and this cannot be ignored. We know in some countries meaningful progress has been achieved. In these countries efforts to enable women to become independent and successful entrepreneurs in the long term cannot be overlooked. This said, however, it must be made clear that while progress in these countries is encouraging, overall, and given the ongoing situations like those of gender-based violence and discrimination be it social, economic, political against women and girls, still persist and needs to be addressed. So, in my view, the continent should redouble its efforts if it is to achieve Africa Union Agenda 2063 which clearly suggest that, in 2063, African women shall fully enjoy all their human rights and that all harmful social practices, especially female genital mutilation and child marriages, will be ended and barriers to quality health and education for women and girls eliminated. This is good news, but it speaks of a huge task ahead. In my view, if there is an area which nations should put more energy on, is in the whole agenda of policy. F or me policy priority should, by and large, concentrate on gender equality in many facets, say for example in pay and protecting women from exploitation. What nations should aim at is to ensure that women are enabled to become, among many other areas, independent and successful entrepreneurs. And to this agenda there is also more to do. Let us ensure that the policies we formulate encourages, not more women to get trapped in the informal, but to enter the formal sector. To come short of what we have suggested, it means we shall not be able to see fruits. If we do not target and address constraints more severely felt by women and here I am thinking of low skill and education levels as well as lack of access to finance, we will not see the Promised Land. But to ensure that this empowerment vision is well and effectively implemented, women should be given space to lead. Interestingly, leadership is also where their potential remains hidden. They have the leadership qualification at all levels, starting from the family unit. To women leadership, Margaret Thatcher, the British stateswoman who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1979 to 1990 and leader of the Conservative Party from 1975 to 1990 who once asserted; any woman who understands the problems of running a home will be nearer to understanding the problems of running a country. This is a thought provoking idea and in many ways helpful. We should therefore trust women and give them space and time. Let us hope, as the Africa agenda proposes, Africa of 2063 will have full gender parity, with women occupying at least 50% of elected public offices at all levels and half of managerial positions in the public and the private sectors. Well, I keep my fingers crossed, eagerly awaiting and hopeful that the dream will come true. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics and Anti-Corruption Specialist Consultant St John’s U niversity of Tanz ania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2 @ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@ gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233997