SIMBA SC Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck said he was pleased with the work-rate of his players following a convincing 2-0 pounding of Coastal Union at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Two goals from the Brazilian holding midfielder Gerson Fraga who netted in each half, helped to stretch Simba’s title hunt mission as they have now pocketed 47 points from 18 matches as they target to claim the championship for the third time in a row. Up next, Simba face Polisi Tanzania tomorrow at the same venue in the city with yet another chance to extend further their grip at the helm of the league ladder. At a press briefing, Vandenbroeck expressed his satisfaction with the displayed performance insisting that they played as a team. “The organisation of the team was perfect and defensively, we were good as we succeeded not give them (Coastal Union) an opportunity to cause troubles towards our goal,” said he. He added that his side was compelled to use long balls and not their usual short passes as a precaution measure to avoid the water-logged pitch which he said was not friendly with their traditional display. “Immediately after scoring the leading goal, it helped us to dominate the match and stay focus while searching for the second goal,” the Belgian trainer said. About the two goals netted by Fraga, Vandenbroeck said it was good to see that each player in the squad is capable to score goals such that there is no need to rely on two or three individuals. “Everyone can score in the team which is good for us,” he said. His match hero on the day, Fraga said he was very happy to score a brace despite missing a couple of matches due to injury. “My role is to defend and build the team but if an opportunity to score comes, I do that to help my team. It was a teamwork which necessitated us to come up winners,” he said. Commenting on the style of celebration whenever he scores, Fraga said fans call him ‘Mkata Umeme’ as such, he folds his arms on his chest to symbolise the nickname given to him. On his part, Coastal Union coach Juma Mgunda conceded the defeat saying they will work on the shortfalls which emerged to his team for them to do well in the upcoming games. “Until now, we are still in the process to make a competitive team in the league,” he said. Asked whether the wet pitch contributed to their loss, Mgunda replied that they train to play at any weather condition.