THE Government Chemist Laboratory Authority is finalizing a plan to establish a laboratory information management system that will increase transparency and lower time spent in processing samples, especially those required by legal enforcement agencies. David Elias Acting Director for Forensic Science Services at the GCLA told the ‘Daily News’ during the ongoing legal service week here on Tuesday that designing the system has reached 95 per cent. Upon completion, the system will be integrated with other institutions including the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), the Drug Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA), Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) the judiciary, the police force, the prison, Immigration Department, the Solicitor General, the Attorney General and the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance. The authority, however, believes that the stakeholders are likely to increase and the systems efficiency construction to accommodate each other and likely emanating changes. “This system was built by patriotic citizens and it has been verified as most secure,” he said. Mr Elias explained that the authority was pushed to adopt it following concerns of delayed sample, which other players have been facing, and only resort to finger pointing and accusations. He says, with the system, the authority will update all eligible parties with the needed information. It would further specify stages reached in processing samples. GCLA admits that the government invested at least 6.5bn/-in the procurement of modern equipment. The investment has helped reduce processing time from 30 working days to 21 days. “We have machines that can process a sample within 24 hours, it depends on the volume of sample it can take, say between one to 21 days,” Mr Elias added. Michael Baltazar, GCLA Computer System Analyst acknowledged that the system is ready to be rolled out and it now awaits other institutions to be linked up. “We expect to hold a joint meeting to ensure we fix all the needed requirements for individual cases. Not all institution would need all the samples, so we are making sure that we will be providing the results based on one’s requirements,” he said. The samples mostly processed by the authority are criminal investigations and social events and include murder charges, poisoning, rape, robbery, human trafficking, drug abuse, poaching, paternity test, disasters and accidents.