How telecom sector steers digital technological development in Africa Digital technology has become part and parcel of the world development endeavor. Many socio-economic transformations happening now in Africa have mostly stimulated by digital technology in both rural and urban settings. New mobile and computer-based programmes are among of the digital technology that has brought prosperity in fastest growing continent especially the way business community conduct and plan for their activities. This is in turn is having a profound impact on employment and productivity, helping to boost the economic growth of countries across the continent. In many countries, digital progress has been made possible by a strong foundation of digital infrastructure backed by government law and policies as well as private sector contributions. Recently, US based Microsoft enlightened the importance of fostering the right technological skills across Africa, in order to safeguard the continent’s digital future. The global tech firm’s Regional Manager for the Middle East and African Region, Ibrahim Youssry said Microsoft is commitment in fostering a knowledge-based economy by redefining education and working to empower the youth. He said, since 2017 the company has up skilled 4.8 million underserved youths across Africa, helping improve their employability, alongside enabling 1,500 aspiring entrepreneurs to establish their own businesses. Just last month, the Nigerian government signed a Memorandum of Understanding with IBM, to work together to bridge the digital literacy gap in the country, according to Ventures Africa. This new programme will mean Nigerians in rural areas will be provided with access to digital literacy programmes to equip them with the necessary skills for the modern world. In Tanzania, private companies have long been essential in driving forward the country’s digital development. According to GSM, telecoms sector in particular has been at the forefront of this, evidenced by their financial commitment to the country’s development. It is reported that the fastest growing sector has attracted investment of over TZS 6 trillion to date. This is undoubtedly a noteworthy sum, but Tanzania want to ensure this level of investment continues into the future, to allow the sector to continue flourishing. It is evident that the investment must ensure the business environment can adapt when necessary to facilitate future development.