L UIS Miquissone displayed yet another eye catching football, as he steered Simba to a 3-1 win over Biashara United in the Mainland Premier League match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Miquissone netted the first half opener and set up Meddie Kagere for the second in the second half, while Francis Kahata was also on target. Novatus Dismas scored the consolation goal for Biashara United. Following the victory, Simba stretched the lead at the league summit with 62 points from 24 matches, opening a massive 17 points gap with second placed Azam FC. It was a bright start for Simba and in the 7th minute, John Bocco headed at the near post off a cross in by Kagere but his attempt failed to hit the target. In the 13th minute, Bocco’s cross almost found Kagere in space but goalkeeper, Daniel Johannes was quick to come out of his line to collect the ball. Five minutes later, Simba survived a scare when Atupele Green was allowed space and time but headed wide. Then in the 19th minute, Miquissone was challenged in the box but referee waved for a play on, and the diminutive Mozambican fired wide seconds later. In the 24th minute, Simba won a spot kick when Kagere was pushed by defender, Derick Mussa as he rose high in an attempt to nod home Miquissone’s cross. Referee Abdallah Mwinyimkuu awarded Simba a penalty and Kagere stepped up and missed as goalkeeper guessed the right way. The Reds kept pushing and in the 35th minute Miquissone netted his first goal of the campaign. It was a bullet shot at the near post, finishing off from a neat pass from Jonas Mkude on the right side. In the 41st minute Miquissone, who covered a lot of ground and was arguably the best player in the game released a cross that almost found Bocco but keeper was alerted. Kagere almost missed from the same spot a minute later. After the break, Simba maintained pressure and in the 51st minute, Pascal Wawa shot from a set piece stung keeper gloves. And in the 68th minute, Kagere netted the second, arriving at a neat cross in by Miquissone to tap home at a close range for his 14th goal of the campaign. Biashara United pulled one back in the 71st minute, when Atupele Green set up Dismas, who capiltalised on a defensive mix up to beat Aishi Manula. It was 3-1 up three minutes before the final whistle, when midfielder, Kahata scored a cheeky goal after exchange of passes involving the scorer, Bocco and Clatous Chama. Then, Chama hit the cross bar in the 89th minute and Miquissone fired wide from a rebound. Earlier yesterday at the Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa in Lindi, host Namungo FC registered a 1-0 victory over Azam FC, to move within two points behind the latter. The lone goal netted by skipper Reliant Lusajo after an hour mark after receiving a long pass from Lucas Kikoti inside the box and connected home past goalkeeper, Razak Abalora, who came out of his line in an effort to make clearance. Namungo remained firmly third on the log with 43 points from 23 outings, while Azam remained second on 45 points from 24 matches. Elsewhere, at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, host Mbeya City registered a vital 1-0 win over Mtibwa Sugar, to pocket 24 points and slightly crawled out of relegation zone. Mbeya City are now placed 15th on the log, while Mtibwa Sugar remained 14th also on 24 points from 24 matches. At the Ushirika Stadium in Moshi, Polisi Tanzania whipped Ruvu Shooting 3-1, whereas at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara, Ndanda FC beat KMC FC 2-1. In another game, JKT Tanzania playing at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma emerged with a slim1-0 victory over Kagera Sugar and Mbao FC lost 2-1 to Mwadui FC at the CCM-Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza.