BASKETBALL coordinator at the Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete (JMK) Youth Park of Dar es Salaam, Bahati Mgunda has been impressed with the tremendous progress made by Tanzanian youngster Atiki Ally at London Basketball Academy located in Ontario, Canada. A basketball prodigy, Ally has been undergoing his new life in basketball career in Canada since 2017 after he secured scholarship. Ally secured a scholarship to study and pursue career in basketball after impressing during a scouting training held in Dar es Salaam in August 2017. Juco Advocate scouts came for a sports tour after being invited by the then, national team coach American Matthew McAllister. The youngster landed a scholarship to play and study at Themes Valley District School Board in Canada. And, Mgunda who is also a former national team member has been closely following Ally’s progress as he is one of JMK Park products. The coach told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ on Friday that Ally is doing fine in both basketball and academics. “He is very much impressed with life in Canada and he is fast improving in his game quality and studies. It is encouraging seeing him doing well in both,” added Mgunda. Mgunda said that Ally is setting a good example to other talented youths in the country, who have ambitions to follow his success. “My advice to talented youth is that they should remain focused, maintain discipline and work hard as chances are there for them to grab,” he said. Mgunda noted that it is beneficial for an individual and country at large, to see as many youths as possible secure similar scholarships. Ally’s basketball journey started in Mwanza way back in 2015, at Nyanza Primary School, where he demonstrated all the attributes that would help him to succeed. Prior to his departure to Canada, Mwanza Regional Basketball Association (MRBA) Assistant Secretary, Haidari Abdul said: “He is a gifted, determined, disciplined and committed player and these are the attributes that players need to succeed.” From Mwanza, Ally shifted to Dar es Salaam, where joined Gerezani Primary School, while undergoing training at the JMK Youth Park Basketball Academy. He later joined High View Secondary and was recruited by Jogoo team for a short spell before his talent earned him a place at the giants Vijana. Ally was also selected in the national Under -18 team that competed at the 2018 FIBA Zone V Basketball Competition in Dar es Salaam and was selected among tournament best five players. He still has a year and half to complete his studies.