THE Chairperson of Association of Tanzania Oil & Gas Service Providers (ATOGS) Mr Abdulsamad Abdulrahim has urged investors in Egypt to tap into the infrastructure investments opportunities available in Tanzania including LNG, EACOP pipeline project, Gas Distribution Network and pipeline projects from Tanzania to Kenya/Zambia/ Uganda. Speaking at the ‘Egypt Petroleum Show’ held on the February 11, Cairo Egypt Mr Abdulsamad informed delegates that the fifth phase Government under President John Pombe Magufuli has improved business and investment climate. Tanzania is a fast growing nation in Africa with 7.2 percent GDP economy. "It is a peaceful country and has stable regulatory and fiscal regime to doing Business and invest,” Abdulsamad said. He also welcomed investors from Egypt and Middle East to build Processing and manufacturing plants, livestock products processing industries and tap into abundant Tourism sector. The ATOGS Chairperson, under the patronage of His Excellency Abdel Fattah El Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, was invited to attend the Egypt Petroleum Show at the invitation of Minister of Petroleum & Mineral Resources Eng. Tarek Ahmed El-Molla Abdulsamad had pleasure to meet and exchange views with H.E. Abdel Fattah El Sisi, President of Egypt, Prime Minister Dr Mostafa Madbouly and Minister of Electricity and Renewable Energy Dr Mohamed Shaker. Mr Abdulsamad also shared Tanzanian story and outlined infrastructure investments opportunities available in the Energy, Oil & Gas and promoted Tanzania as Hub for Gas project and investment destination in order to attract FDI, investors and Joint Ventures. During the conference, global leaders discussed the influence of geopolitics and foreign trade policies on crude oil pricing, supply and demand. They also discussed the importance of decision making in mega projects “Time vs Resources”, global uncertainty of Trade policies and need to seriously engage investors. Abdulsamad also participated in the panel discussion with global leaders where Oil and gas innovation and technology in the 4th industrial age was discussed; How are businesses accelerating next generation R&D initiatives to keep pace with competition and stay ahead of the game. Later this week, Abdulsamad will be touring various manufacturing facilities including Elsewedy power system projects, Energy products, Oil & gas solution and marine terminals.