(Continued  from  last  week) INADVERTENTLY, last  week’s  article   kind  of   ‘jumped  the  queue’  to  discuss  the  army  mutiny  of  January  1964;  When  there  were  other  momentous  governance  events  in  President  Nyerere’s  first  year  in  office,  1963,  which  are  worth  putting  on  permanent  record. Hence,   for  the  purpose  of   orderly  chronological  presentation  of  events,  we  will  go  back   to  those  momentous  events  of  President  Nyerere’s  first  year  in  office;  Which  was,  coincidentally,  also  my  first  year  in  office  as  Clerk  of  the  National  Assembly,  becoming   the  first  Tanzanian   chief  executive  officer (CEO)  of  that  highly  respected  Constitutional  establishment. The  first  term  of  President  Nyerere in  office Even  though  President  Nyerere  assumed  office  in  December,  1962;  But  he  served  in  that  capacity only  for  the  remainder  of  the  stipulated  five-year  leadership  period,  which    was  counted  from  the  general  elections  of  1960,  and  was  therefore  scheduled  to  end  in  1965. Hence,  for  the  benefit  of  the  current  generation  of  young  Tanzanians,  we  will  describe,  in  greater  detail,  those  momentous,  history-making,  formative  first  three  years  (1963-1965)  of  Mwalimu   Nyerere’s  Presidency,  actually  year  by  year. The  following  were  the  major  momentous  events  of  that  period:  (i)  The  resettlement  of  the  rural  population  into  new,  well  organised,  village  settlements.  (ii)  The  making  of  a  new  Constitution, ( that  made  provision  for  a  democratic,  One-Party  State).   (iii)  The   formation  of  a  long  lasting  Political  Union  between  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar.  (iv)  The  1965  general  elections,  (which  demonstrated  to  the  whole  world  that  “Single-Party  Democracy”  was,  indeed,  a viable  political  option). I  am   a  credible  witness  to  all  of  these  events;  because  of  my  personal involvement  in  the administration  of   the  relevant   Legislative  processes  that  had  to  be  undertaken   for  their  finalization. The   beginnings   of   the   Villageization   programme The  “villageization  policy”  was   first  announced  by  President  Nyerere  in  his inaugural  address  to  the  National  Assembly  on  10th  December,  1962;  wherein  he  said  the  following: “ukiniuliza  Serikali  yetu  imepanga  kufanya   nini   katika  miaka  michache  ijayo,  jibu  langu  ni  rahisi  sana.  Ni  kwamba  katika miaka michache  ijayo,  Serikali  itafanya  kila  liwezekanalo,  ili  kuwezesha  wakulima  wa  Tanganyika  waishi  katika  vijiji,  utaratibu  ambao  utaiwezesha  Serikali  kuwapatia  kwa  urahisi  zaidi, mahitaji  ambayo  ni  muhimu  kwa  ajili  ya  kuboresha  maisha  yao”. The  implementation  of  that  policy   started  immediately,  with  the  establishment  of   the  “Rural  Settlements  Commission  Act,  1963”, which  was  tasked  with  the  responsibility  for  establishing  new,  properly  organised,   ‘village  settlements’;  wherein  the  rural   residents  would  enjoy  the  modern  life  styles,   similar  to    those   enjoyed  by   their  urban  counterparts;  such  as  the  availability  of  electricity,   piped  clean  water  supplies,  and  within-easy-reach primary  education  facilities,  for  their  children. Unfortunately,   this  initial   experiment   of  ‘Village  Settlements’  ended  in  total  failure,  as  a  result  of  the  administrative  blunders  committed  by  the  relevant   implementing  Agency,  the  Rural  Settlement  Commission,  of making  them  too  ‘capital  intensive’  investments,  which  went   far  beyond  the  capability  of  the  Government  to  fund  their  establishment  throughout  the  country. The   making  of  a  new  Constitution President  Nyerere  took  the  earliest  opportunity,  at  the  first  meeting  for  that  year   of  the  TANU  National  Executive  Committee,  which  was  held  in  January  1963;  presented   his  cherished  proposal  for  the  country  to  have   a  new,  democratic,  One-Party  State Constitution. The  meeting  unanimously  adopted  his  proposal,  and  also  authorized  him,  in his  capacity  as  President  of  the  country,  to  appoint  a  ‘Presidential  Constitutional  Commission’,  which  would  be  tasked  with  the  responsibility  to  prepare  proposals,   and  recommendations,  for  the  Constitution  of  such  a  democratic,   One-Party  State.    And    because  he  wanted  to  get  the  process  started  as  quickly  as  possible,  he   fast-tracked  the  appointment of  the  said  Commission,  and  announced  its  members  towards  the  end  of  the  same  month,  on  28th  January,  1963. In  view  of  the  general   understanding that  is   now  prevailing  in  the  world,   which  tends  to  equate  democracy  with  multi-party  politics,  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  desire  for  a  Constitutional  ‘One  Party  democracy’  needs  to  be  explained. Basically,  it  was  based  on the  search  for   a  practical  solution  to  what  he  considered  to  be  a  failure  of  multi-party  democracy  in  Tanganyika  at  that  time;  arising  from  the  results  of  the  two  multi-party   general elections  which   were  held  in  Tanganyika  before  independence,   in  1958/59;  and  in  1960. In  both  cases,  the  majority  of  the  voters country  wide  had  become  disenfranchised,  for  the  reason  only  that because  of  TANU’s  huge  popularity,  most  of  its  candidates  were  elected  unopposed.    For  example,  in  the  1960  parliamentary  elections,  TANU  candidates  were  elected  unopposed  in  58  of  the   seventy-one  constituents  that  were  available,  thus  no  voting  took  place  in  all  of  those  constituencies. In   such  circumstances,  Mwalimu  Nyerere  felt  that  this  disenfranchisement    of   voters  was  undemocratic;   and  therefore  a  problem   that  required  a  solution.    He  also   felt  that  the  best  solution  lay  in  creating  democratic  competition  within TANU itself,  by  crafting  a  Constitution  which  would  make  provision  for  that  to  happen. The Presidential  Constitutional  Commission  took  two  years  to  complete  the  task  that  had  been  assigned  to  it,  and  presented  its  final  report  to  the  President  on  22nd  March,  1965.                                                                                                And  that,  is  what  gave  birth  to  the  One-party  Tanzania Constitution  of  1965 The  momentous  events  of  1964:   The  birth  of  a  new  country,  and  a  new  nation “The  Peoples’  Republic  of  Zanzibar,   and  the  Republic  of  Tanganyika,   shall  upon  Union  Day,  and  forever  after,  be  united  into   one  sovereign  Republic”. These  are  precise  words  of  section  4  of  the  a  statute  titled  “The  Tanganyika  and  Zanzibar  Union  Act”   (no.  22  of  1964);  which  was  enacted by  the  Parliament  of  the  Republic  of  Tanganyika  on  25th  April,  1964. I  would  like  to  draw  our younger   readers’  special  attention  to  the  specific  words  shall  be  united  upon  Union  Day  “and  forever  after”;   Which   partly   accounts  for  the  continued  stable  existence  of  our  Union,   so  many  years   after  half  a  century  since  its  establishment;    and   still  going  strong. This  action  by  the  Tanganyika  Parliament,   was  preceded  by  the  passage   of  an  identical   legislation, titled  “The  Zanzibar  and  Tanganyika  Union  Law,  1964”;   by  the  Zanzibar  Revolutionary  Council  on  the  morning  of  the  same  day, 25th  April,  1964;   and  was  subsequently  published  in  the  Union   Government Gazette  as  GN  243  of  1964. The  two  pieces  of  legislation  were  enacted  separately   for  the  purpose  of  ratifying  the  Agreement  for  uniting  the  two  countries,  which  had  been  signed  earlier  by  Presidents  Julius  Kambarage   Nyerere  of  the  Republic  of  Tanganyika,  and   Abeid  Amani  Karume  of the People’s  Republic  of  Zanzibar,  on  22nd   April,  1964. That  Agreement  had  specified  that  the  Union  “shall  be governed  by  an  interim  Constitution,  pending  the  enactment  of  a  permanent  Constitution”;  and  further  that  “it  shall  come  into   existence on  the  day  following  that   Agreement’s  ratification  by  respectively  by  the Legislatures  of  the  two  countries”.    That  is  why  26th  Aril  became  the  birth  date  of  our  Union,  or  “Union  Day”. Briefly  then,  that  is  when,  and  how,  an  entirely   new  country  called   “The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania”,  and  the  new  nation  of  “ sisi  Watanzania”   came  into  existence;  this    being   a  proud  creation  of  the  people  of  these  countries  themselves;   and  not  that  of  the  colonial  powers  who  met  in  Berlin  in  1884,   created  the  boundaries  of  African  countries,   and  proceeded  to  divide  these  countries  among   themselves,  for  their  colonial  domination  and  exploitation. The   inauguration  of  the  First  Five-year  Development  Plan In  my  capacity  as  Clerk  of  the  National  Assembly,  I  was  present  therein  when  President  Nyerere  arrived,  on  12th  May,  1964,  to  inaugurate  Tanzania’s   first  five-year  development  Plan. It  may  be  helpful  to  also   explain,  that   soon  after    Mwalimu  Nyerere  had  taken  over   full  responsibility  for  managing  the  affairs  of  Tanganyika,    upon  the  achievement  of  independence  in  December  1961;   he  had  invited  Sir  Ernest  Vassey ,  a  British   national  who    at  that  time  was  serving  in  the  colonial  Government  of  Kenya;    to  become  his  Minister  of  Finance,  and  given  him  the  added   responsibility  for  developing  a  short-term,    three- year  development  plan,  for  Tanganyika. Sir  Ernest  did,  indeed,  produce   such  a  Plan;   but,  in  view  of  the  prevailing   circumstances   at  the  material  time,  plus  the  fact  that  all  the  funds  required  for  the  implementation  of  that  plan   were  expected  to  be  provided  by  the  British  Government;    the  said   Plan  had,  of  necessity,   relied   heavily  on  the  World  Bank  recommendations   that  had  been  issued   in  respect  of Tanganyika’s  economic  development. However,   that  was   not  quite  satisfactory  for  Mwalimu  Nyerere;    whose  aspiration  was  for     Tanganyika’s  development  to  be  more  people-centered,   aimed   at  upgrading  the  people’s   quality  of  life,  plus   the  achievement,  in  the  long  run,  of   the  country’s  self-reliance. Thus,  when  he  came  to  Parliament  to  inaugurate  the  first  five-year  plan,  whose  preparation  he  had  closely  supervised  himself,   he  was   vividly   exuberant,  and  full  of  hope  and  confidence,  that  his  cherished  objectives  would   probably  be  achieved  through  the  successful  implementation  of  this  Plan.  His  is   evidenced  in  parts  of  his  speech  on  that  occasion,  wherein  he  said  the  following:    “Mpango  huu  una  maana  sana  kwa  nchi  yetu. Uhuru  ulitupatia  nafasi  ya  kujiletea  maendeleo  yetu  sisi  wenyewe.  Nafasi  hiyo  sasa  ni  lazima  itumike,  kwa  kuliweka  Taifa  letu  katika  misingi  imara  ya  kuwa  na  watu  wenye  afya  bora,   walioelimika,   na  walioondokana  na  umaskini  Mpango  huu  wa  miaka  mitano,  unaonesha  njia  tutakazozipitia  ili  kufikia  shabaha  hizo”. “Kupanga  ni  kuchagua”  is  one  of  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s    well-known  metaphors.   He  used  it  for  the  first  time in  the  course  of  this  speech. But,  unfortunately, despite  his  enthusiastic   optimism,     luck  was  not  always  on  his  side.   There  were   obvious    constraining  factors  which  had  apparently  been  overlooked;    the  main  ones  being:    the  lack  of  sufficient   trained   manpower  in  many  of  the   Plan  areas;  and,  even  more  serious,  the  heavy  dependence  on  foreign  donors  and  loans  for  the  Plan’s   implementation. For  example,  when  Tanzania  suddenly   broke  diplomatic  relations with  Britain  in  December  1965,  on  a  quarrel  over  the  Unilateral  Declaration  of  Independence (UDI)   by  its  Southern  Rhodesia   colony,    resulted   in  the   suspension,  or  cancellation,  of   a  substantial  loan  amounting  to seven  and  a  half  million  sterling  pounds,  which  had  been  expected  to  be  secured  from  Britain,  for  the  implementation  of  some  of  the   projects   which  had  been  envisaged  in  that  Plan. The  1965  general  elections:  A  vital  test  for   the  “one-Party  democracy”  argument Indeed,  the  1965  general  elections  turned  out  to be  a  vital  test  for  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s   argument,   that  ‘One-Party  democracy’   was  a  viable  political  option. For that  reason,  two  things  happened:  Firstly,  President  Nyerere  himself,   being   keenly   aware  of  this  fact,  directed  that  maximum attention  be    focused  on  the  need  for  absolute  fairness   in  all  the  aspects  of  that  election  exercise. The  relevant  aspects  included:   (i)  the  crafting  of  an  Electoral  Law   which  would   ensure  the  availability  of  strict  fairness  to  all the  participating  parties;  (ii)  the  management  of  the  whole   process  by   the  TANU,  particularly   the  selection  of  candidates,  and   the  campaign  stage;  and  (iii)  the  management  of  the  entire process  by    the  Director  of  Elections,  (that  was   myself). It  was  in  the  management  of  that  delicate  exercise,  that  fortune  smiled  on  me. Will  be  continued  next  week. piomsekwa@gmail.com   /   0754767576.