YOU can’t congratulate the 2010 Soccer World Cup-winning Nation on the African soil (Spain) without mentioning those football loving Spanish supporters travelling with their team (in red, yellow and black colours) to all stadiums across the globe. The heart of their ‘Olee, Ole, Ole, Oleee,’ was a unique and superfan ‘Manuel Caceres Artesero’ famously known as “Manolo el del Bombo.” or “The drum of Spain!” In addition to the love for his ‘home club’ Valencia CF, the man achieved global fame for his football passion and has been a never miss at any of his National team’s game since 1982 World Cup in Spain. “Manolo is absolutely part and parcel of our winning mentality,” underlined the Spanish captain Cassilas after winning World Cup 2010 in South Africa. How lucky we are here in Tanzania, “…Tumejikuta tunaokota embe dodo chini ya mnazi!” A British man who happened to be a truly super fan ‘a la Manolo’ of our Tanzanian football especially the ‘Taifa Stars’ has just emerged right within our rooms! That is none other than NICK REYNOLDS a.k.a. BONGO - ZOZO, ‘Mnyalu wa Kizungu, Mzee wa fujo isizoumiza,’ or simply “Baba Jessica.” Nick Reynolds was born in Harare, Zimbabwe and moved with his parents back to Norfolk, Norwich in the UK while still a baby. At the age of 21, after he had accomplished his education, Nick took a ‘three months’ tour around Tanzania and spent some weeks in Iringa. “There, I met this girl of my life (Carolina Materu) ndani ya hiyo miezi mitatu tu!” S l o w l y but surely, the whole scenar- i o started to change as Nick got overwhelmed by almost everything; that girl, the country, the language, ‘ukarimu wa wa-Tanzania’ and also business opportunities. Nick began topping-up the years of his residence permit (“kwa Wanyalu”} from 3 months up to 18 years! “A girl of my life ended up being the wife of my life and mother to our lovely two children (Jessica and Mickey)” To support his family, Nick created many businesses “mimi ni mtafutaji mzuri lakini pia naridhika na kidogo nilichonacho,” Nick was the first person in Africa to market items through eBay (Online buying and delivering system) two decades ago! “I used to keep and sell kuku wa kienyeji!” Additionally, throughout all this period, his passion for our local football continued being an undisputable top priority in his daily schedule. By the year 2016 Nick together with his family relocated their home from Iringa (TZ) to Southampton in the UK. The idea to create You- Tubes (such as cooking ‘Mihogo’ in the kitchen with Mama Jessica) and Travel Blogs in Worthy to be illustrated... Kiswahili came-up after realizing that most travel Blogs are in English language. Nick happened to be in Dar-es-Salaam during AFCON’s qualifying match between ‘Taifa Stars’ and the ‘ U g a n d a n Cranes’ took place. “I created a short YouTube v i d e o while singing our National anthem.” The enormous positive reaction from many of YouTube viewers inspired him to keep on providing us such “funny and entertaining videos.” During AFCON finals in Egypt (2019), once again Nick travelled from the UK to support his ‘Taifa Stars’ in Misri. We all saw that Nick was our super supporter! “I did sing our National Anthem and pushed our players to their limit, especially when we played against Kenya ‘nikaona, aah, hao ni shemeji zetu tu, lazima tuwafunge!” An interview with Super sports Tv Channel created this name ‘Mzee wa fujo isizoumiza!’ Whereas the name ‘Bongo-Zozo’ was already existing. Since then, Nick became the darling of all Tanzanian press. During Mbwana Samatta’s first match for Aston Villa, Nick gave himself an assignment of promoting Tanzania in and around the stadium, interviewing and informing people about Tanzania, “swinging my Tanzanian flag while doing the ‘Balozi wa hiari things.” In the end, his activities caught the eyes of some people around, who requested Dr Kigwangala to make Nick an ‘official Balozi wa hamasa.’ Indeed, while Nick was somewhere in Moshi, the Minister invited him to Dodoma. “Yaani, ilibidi nishoneshewe suti ya Kaunda haraka-haraka kabla sijatinga Bungeni!” There, Nick was officially made ‘Balozi wa Hamasa- Maliasili na Utalii.’ Now, after this ‘official platform’ of being ‘a Balozi wa hamasa,’ “mimi najua sana kushawishi, kupiga kelele na kujaza viwanja!” He intends to use his talent and the given social media, to travel around and knock all possible doors of celebrities, top football clubs etc. and entice them to come and visit Tanzania. “I also want to promote some young Tanzanian football stars (starting with my beloved club of Lipuli) to try their luck in England ‘a la Samatta’ or even in a lower league!” Another Nick’s passion is to travel the world. Among his first stop in every country is the Tanzanian Embassy! ‘I even went up to Den Haag in the Netherlands, “lazima nipite kumjulia hali Mnyalu mwenzangu, Mheshimiwa Balozi Irene Kasyanju!” To the critical issue of nationality, Nick comes up with a practical view. While everybody is thirsty waiting for the decision on “Uraia pacha = double nationalities,” so far, Nick’s existing status (with a British Passport) simply allows him to unconditionally travel the world “and promote ‘my Tanzania’ accordingly.” Well, that’s where the justification of “Embe dodo kuanguka chini ya mnazi!” appears! C’mon BONGO-ZOZO, just keep on doing the right thing, by creating “hiyo fujo isizoumiza!” After all, you are Worthy to be illustrated. David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com