THE National Electoral Commission (NEC) is scheduled to complete the first phase of updating voter registration information this month in what it says the process has so far exceeded the target. NEC Assistant Director of Information Cosmas Mwaisobwa told reporters during ongoing Law Week at Nyerere Square’s ground in Dodoma that the process was a constitutional requirement before the general election. “We have completed the process in 28 regions in both Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar. The three regions left - Morogoro, Coast and Dar es Salaam - are expected to embark on the process effectively between February 3 and 17, this year,” he said. Tanzania will be heading to the sixth general election this year since the introduction of multiparty democracy in 1992. The process is to enable Tanzanians aged 18 years to fully exercise their constitutional right to vote. In some cities such as Dodoma, the exercise helps civil servants who otherwise relocated from Dar es Salaam during the mass government exodus announced by President John Magufuli. Mr Mwaisobwa explained that Morogoro’s exercise was scheduled for February 3-9, while for Dar es Salaam and the Coast regions theirs is scheduled for between February 10 and 17. “The seven days allocated for the process in Dar es Salaam and Coast regions are sufficient,” he said. He called on members of the public in respective regions to utilise the service. He said the process involved a biometric voter registration, the same adopted in 2015. According to NEC, after the first phase, the commission will publish the draft voter register before embarking on the second and final updates of voter registration information. ‘Daily News’ understands that the voter identification is a vital requirement for one to exercise their constitutional right to vote in the forthcoming general election. NEC told reporters that there had been a positive response from members of the public attending its pavilion in need of 2020 general election information. Mr Mwaisobwa called on people to seek information at the ongoing Law Week that ends on Friday this week.