THE High Court has endorsed the acquittal of cashier with Tanesco Anna Kipeke charged with stealing about 100m/- by public servant. This follows Judge Yose Mlyambina’s decision to dismiss the appeal by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), who was challenging the judgment given in favour of Kipeke by Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam. “There is nothing in evidence brought by the appellant herein to link the respondent with the offence charged. None of the brought witness did prove that it is the respondent who committed the offence of stealing the appellant’s cash,” he ruled. Indeed, the judge noted, the immediate boss of the respondent to whom the daily report was accounted for was the accountant. Surprisingly, he said, the appellant never bothered to parade him as a material witness. According to him, such omission made the prosecution evidence remain weak. More so, Judge Mlyambina went on stating that the prosecution’s allegation that it was the system itself which proved the offence was a far-fetching submission because the system was operated by people, as it was a person operating or charging the operation of such system supposed to prove it. Again, he said, though there was no doubt that the respondent was the employee of the appellant, there was no direct link to the theft of the appellant’s cash done by the respondent. The judge pointed out that prosecution had the sole duty to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. “In the circumstances, I find this appeal lacks merits. The same stands dismissed for lack of proof of the charged offence. Order accordingly,” the judge declared. Expounding further, Judge Mlyambina said the offence of stealing by a servant as covered by Section 271 of the Penal Code, required the offender to be a servant, the thing stolen was of the employer or came into the possession of the offender on the account of his employer. In the instant case, he noted, the charge did not indicate properly the two alternatives given under Section 271 and needless such general observation under Section 258 (1) and (2) of the Penal Code there must be an act of theft with intention to steal another person’s property. “As properly stated by the respondent’s counsel, there was no proof of the actus reus of the respondent in stealing the appellant’s cash,” the judge said. Actus reus is action (criminal act) or conduct which is a constituent element of a crime, as opposed to the mental state of the accused. He also pointed out that it must be noted that the appellant’s suspicion of the respondent as the cashier who operated the computer was not sufficient to infer guilt, as there were many other cashiers working in the same office. The judge concluded that it was the requirement of the law that the prosecution had to prove beyond reasonable doubt to achieve conviction, as a mere suspicion couldn’t be good evidence for inferring guilt. Kipeke is a civil servant who was working with Tanesco - Kinondoni Region - at Mikocheni as cashier. It was alleged by the appellant that between April 2013 and September, 2014 she stole 96,347,018/- the property of her employer which came into her possession by virtue of her employment. Consequently, the respondent was charged with stealing by servant contrary to Section 271 of the Penal Code. Upon hearing, the trial Court found the prosecution had failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. The DPP, on behalf of the Republic, being aggrieved by the decision of the Resident Magistrates’ Court of Dar es Salaam at Kisutu before Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde dated November 30, 2017 on which the respondent was acquitted filed the appeal to the High Court against the decision.