AS the Ministry of Health, Community Development Gender Elderly and Children has once again assured the public that so far there is no case of coronavirus reported in the country, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa cautioning mischievous individuals against exploiting the situation for political gains. The premier said Tanzanians should rely on information being issued by the government on updates on the disease. He made the remarks on Friday after attending a Friday prayer session at Gaddafi Mosque in Dodoma, calling upon citizens to pray for the nation so that God can save it from various disasters. The PM said that the government was taking measures to ensure the country continues to remain safe and urged Tanzanians to pray to God so that He can save the nation from various disasters such as the outbreak of coronavirus, a threatening locust invasion and floods. He said that in Wuhan City where the disease is said to have originated, there are 497 Tanzanians assuring that they are all safe. Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Deputy Minister Dr Faustine Ndugulile said that so far the country was still safe since no case of Coronavirus had been reported and vowed to take legal measures against people who claim to have found a cure for the deadly disease. He said the government was making close follow ups on various reports of suspected patients and conducted tests which showed that they had not contracted the viral disease. He said the government had also been taking various preventive measures, including intensified health screening at major entry points - borders and airports - for incoming and outgoing passengers. Dr Ndugulile made the remark in Arusha during his official tour of the region to assess preparedness for the disease. “I want to assure you that so far there is no case of Coronavirus reported in our country,” Dr Ndugulile stressed. He said he was satisfied with the preparedness and preventive measures being undertaken in Arusha region. Responding on a person who claims to have found a cure for the viral disease, Dr Ndugulile said he was aware of the reports circulating in social networks demanding him to verify his assertions. “I am aware of the report of a person identifying himself as ‘Nabii Saba’, a resident of Ngaramtoni in Arumeru District, Arusha Region, claiming to have found cure for Coronavirus... we don’t have any reported case of the disease in Tanzania but he should substantiate his claims,” Dr Ndugulile said. He added that failure to verify his claims will lead him into stringent legal measures. Dr Ndugulile noted that the government had already dispatched experts to find out whether the person has been authorised to provide medical services and promotion of his medicine while experts were still seeking a cure for the deadly virus. The deputy minister said that any person engaging in traditional or herbal medicines must be registered by certified authorities, adding that Nabii Saba should validate his registration. He called upon the public to refrain from spreading information that may confuse the public, warning that legal measures would be taken against Nabii Saba if found to have operated contrary to the laws. According to a press statement released yesterday by the Embassy of China in Tanzania, as of February 13 this year, there were a total of 5,090 new confirmed cases and 2,450 new suspected cases were reported in mainland China. It said 1,081 people had been cured and discharged from hospital and 121 fatalities were reported. In Hubei province, a total of 4,823 confirmed cases were reported, with 690 cured and 116 fatalities. The statement further said that by February 14 in mainland China, altogether there were 63,851 confirmed cases, among which 6,723 cured and discharged from hospital, 1,380 died, and 55,748 still under treatment. According to the latest version of the diagnosis and treatment scheme released by the Chinese National Health Commission, any suspected cases with pneumonia-related computerised tomography (CT) scan results are counted as clinically diagnosed cases. The Hubei provincial health commission said the diagnosis criteria revision has been made to give those who have been clinically diagnosed the timely standard treatment of confirmed cases to further improve the treatment success rate. This diagnosis criteria revision has been largely recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO).