THERE is a famous saying which applies to most successful people who dare to dream and “think outside the box”. Does somebody’s thoughts have any correlation to his/ her financial well-being? Is there a problem in the thought process which limits someone to become rich? How can the way one thinks determine whether he/she would be a rich person or poor? The renowned author of the famous book - “How Rich People Think,” spent nearly three decades interviewing millionaires around the world to find out what separates them from everyone else. It had little to do with money itself, he told Business Insider, but it was about their mentality. “[The middle class] tells people to be happy with what they have,” he said. And on the whole, most people are steeped in fear when it comes to money. You may not be entirely agree with what has been mentioned above, but one thing is for sure that there certainly are some personal attributes which separate the rich people vis-a-vis the poor or call them not so rich in our society. The purpose of today’s article is to identify some of these attributes which can really make a difference when it comes to wealth creation in our life. In the modern society everybody aspires to become rich but at the end very few people achieves it in real sense. Then what had gone wrong for majority of people who definitely aspired to be rich but could not attain it due to some internal or external factors. We all know that external factors are beyond our control but with regard to internal factors we definitely have the remote control in our hand. And this is where the most important factor of ‘think differently’ applies. Have we ever tried hard to ‘think outside the box’ as to why you remained poor despite your best efforts? Probably you would find the answer if serious attempt is made by thinking differently. Let me pen down a statement for better understanding of the issue in hand - “average people think MONEY is the root of all evil, while rich people believe POVERTY is the root of all evil”. The average person has been brainwashed to believe rich people are lucky or dishonest. That’s why there’s a certain shame that comes along with “getting rich” in lower-income communities. The world class knows that while having money doesn’t guarantee happiness, it does make your life easier and more enjoyable. If we evaluate the above statement carefully you would easily comprehend which attribute differentiate the rich from poor i.e. “thinking differently”. The crux of the matter is - you have to find a solution in the problem itself and not outside of it. And probably this is where the difference lies. One class of people approach money as a problem while other class view money as an opportunity. You decide in which category you want to put yourself in. Let me share another contrast in our thinking - “average people think the road to riches is paved with formal education, while rich people believe in acquiring specific knowledge”. We all know that many world-class performers have little formal education, and have amassed their wealth through acquisition and subsequent sale of specific knowledge. Meanwhile, the masses are convinced that master’s degrees and doctorates are the way to wealth, mostly because they are trapped in the linear line of thought that holds them back from higher levels of consciousness. The wealthy aren’t interested in the means, only the end. While on the subject let me reemphasise the importance of education in our life, but often it is observed that we run chasing the paper degrees but not the knowledge. Another important factor relates to our “goal setting”. Average people set low expectations so that they’re never disappointed. Rich people are up for the challenge. Psychologists and other mental health experts often advise people to set low expectations for their life to ensure they are not disappointed. No one would ever strike it rich and live their dreams without huge expectations. So set your goal high and go for it. There is no force in the world which can stop you to attain your goal. But if at the very first place you set low standards for yourself, then there is no way you can achieve something remarkable. And finally the most important attribute which certainly has a great bearing on our life relates to ‘decision making’. Someone said “it is better to take a wrong decision than not taking at all”. Most of us continue to live in our comfort zone and never gain the courage to break the shell around us. Remember, the hardest thing to learn in life is which bridge to cross and which to burn. And to determine which bridge to cross and which one to burn involves a decision making on your part, so think differently and make the right decision. Cheers!!!