ALL is set for the Tanzania Hockey Association (THA) to host this year’s Mapinduzi Cup hockey tournament to be held from March 13th to 15th this year at Lugalo ground in Dar es Salaam. THA Secretary, Kaushik Doshi told the ‘Daily News’ from Tanga yesterday that preparation for the three-days hockey tournament is on a top gear and already six regions have confirmed to send teams for the prestigious tournament. He, however, said the tournament couldn’t take place last year due to several reasons. The tournament, according to Doshi, serves as the National Club Championship and this year will be jointly sponsored by Reliance Insurance Company and Tata Africa Holdings Ltd. “We are delighted to bring the Mapunduzi Cup to Dar es Salaam once again, everything is going on well so far and we gear up for a successful event,” added Doshi. According to Doshi, the tournament was earlier scheduled to staged in January, but due to some technical reasons, that included downpour, the event couldn’t take place and hence we decided to stage it in March so as to give all the teams ample time for preparation. Doshi stressed that the event is open to all the clubs, teams, institution and also the schools. The secretary said the event is also open for both men and ladies teams, though in ladies category it will depend on number of the teams. He said March 5th is set as closing date for the confirmation for those wishing to take part. “However we have already informed all the teams wishing to come to Dar es Salaam about the date change and as well we would like to see many ladies’ teams,” he said. Doshi, however, added that THA has also appointed the coordinators of the event who Mnonda Magani and Alice Taabu. Further Doshi said THA appreciates very much the support of the two companies that sponsored this year’s e tournament. He also thanked the management of TPDF for providing the Lugalo hockey field as the main venue for this prestigious tournament. In the last event, Dar Khalsa clinched the national hockey after beating Tanzania Prisons on penalty shootout. “We expect teams from Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Tanga, Lindi, Dares Salaam and Zanzibar along with a few schools teams which undergo hockey development programme.”