“IT is privilege for me to be here on behalf of the alumni from the African Girls Can Code Initiative (AGCCI) training, which was held between 14 and 27 April 2019 in Pretoria, South Africa,” said a Form VI student at Kilakala High School in Morogoro, Ms Thereza Joseph, when receiving a laptop from the Danish Embassy to Tanzania last week in Dar es Salaam. The laptop was part of support for a four-year AGCCI programme (started 2018), whose main objectives is, among others, to impacting girls and promoting various efforts to bridge the gender gap in the ICT sector. The programme, jointly run by various stakeholders, including UN Women, also aims at sparking interest of young girls to connection and be able to receive knowledge and competence as well as promote a pursuing carrier in science and technology. Some Kilakala High School students received laptops and Joseph stressed that AGCCI presented the students opportunities to network and share learning experiences in the field of computer science. “We also learnt about leadership skills which made us realize that every girl deserved to participate in the creation of technology that will transform our world,” she said. The laptop support and AGCCI programme in general, had really opened their eyes to the need to explore more skills on technology and contribute to the transformation as they are change-makers who have to initiate the change that they want to see for an equal future. Handing over the laptops, Danish Ambassador in Tanzania Mette Dissing-Spandet said that the embassy works hard to support Tanzania in reaching its development objectives and in realizing its international commitments. Denmark has a vision of how the transformation towards a digital world can revolutionize the lives of the poor, seeing great opportunities in using technology to create political and economic inclusion and readiness for the job market of the future. “So far, we are only scratching the surface of something big. We must embrace this development with innovative thinking. We must reach out -- not least the youth and girls – to harness the fruits of the digital revolution,” she said, adding, “there is a huge untapped potential in girls everywhere, in girls’ education, in girls’ integration in the IT industry for the sake of the economies, and for the sake of the girls.” The envoy questioned why shouldn’t girls be able to, why shouldn’t girls engage in solutions to challenges that women and girls are faced with, or challenges that the world is faced with for that matter. According to her, for many young women and girls, opportunities are limited as they live insecure lives. They find it hard to get an education. Some girls have given up even dreaming of a future for themselves. They feel – and often they are – left behind. That is one of the reasons that Denmark decided the launching of the AGCCI two years ago as it wanted to demonstrate how digital literacy can give young girls new skills, new job opportunities and how digital literacy can improve their lives. She stressed that the World Economic Forum estimates that 90 per cent of future jobs will require IT skills. African girls and women need to be part of this fast-growing sector and of the jobs it creates. However, she said that the problem is that young women rarely choose a career in science and technology because in many African countries the upbringing of girls, social gender biases, and normalized discrimination all play a role. Right from childhood, games and toys popular with children across the continent reinforce stereotypes that are favourable towards empowering boys and limiting girls. Girls are also often excluded from activities that would broaden their imagination and interest in IT, the envoy said. With AGCCI, she said, Denmark wanted to address those issues, to create supportive, learning and professional environments that neutralize these stereotypes as well as to challenge the existing myths about young women, who chose a career in IT. The UN Women Representative Hodan Addou praised the government of Denmark’ efforts towards empowering women and girls in Tanzania, saying that its (Denmark) continuous support enabled other stakeholders, including the Tanzanian government to emphasize the value of science and technology. According to her, by providing computer skills and technology to women and girls made development stakeholders able to contribute to Africa’s innovation, industrialisation and growth. Addou said that the laptop handling over event reflected how part of the work to support the empowerment of girls in ICT sector makes a difference. “Today we will see how, through AGCCI, we are impacting girls and promoting various efforts to bridge the gender gap in the ICT sector. The programme aims to bridge the technological divide through increasing women and girls’ access to modern technology and supporting their empowerment through education and employment,” she said. “Denmark continued support enables UN Women and its partners, including Tanzanian government to emphasize through their programmes, the value of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) and other related subject areas.” By providing computer skills and technology to women and girls, development stakeholders are able to contribute to Africa’s innovation, industrialisation and growth, said Ms Addou.