YOUNG Africans and Azam FC survived scare to reach th e last eight of the Azam Sports Federation Cup ( ASFC) following their respective hard-earned victories yesterday. Haruna Niyonzima first  half stunner gave Yanga a 1-0 win over hard-fighting First Division League (FDL) side Gwambina FC from Misungwi, Mwanza at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. At the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, defending champions Azam FC had to be separated with host Ihefu FC with a 5-4 win on post-match penalty shootouts, after the regular time ended in a barren draw. Azam goalkeeper Razak Abalora made two saves to ensure the defending champions cruise into the quarterfinals after denying Michael Msinda and Willy Mgaya, while Shaaban Idd Chilunda missed for Azam. The defending champions’ penalties were scored by Obrey Chirwa, Yakub Mohamed, Never Tigere, Bruce Kangwa and Abalora The Yanga versus Gwambina match was an end to end affair as the Mwanza lads refused to lay down and be punished. Gwambina, who fielded several experienced players including former Simba attacker Pastory Athanas and defender Jacob Massawe, kept Yanga fans guessing throughout the 9 0 minutes. In the 12th minute, Gwambina made their first attempt when Athanas played a go through pass to his skipper Jacob Massawe, who raced into the box and came face to face with goalkeeper, Metacha Mnata, but he agonisingly shot off target. Another good chance for Gwambina came in the 20th minute, when rightwing back Hamad Nassor found himself in space but took time to release a shot, only to allow defender Jaffary Mohamed to slide down and block his move. Yanga also threatened with Mapinduzi Balama, Tariq Seif and Bernard Morrison but Gwambina defence well marshalled by Revocatus Richard stood firm to clear all dangers directed to their goal. As the game rolled down to the breather, Yanga snatched the lead, when Niyonzima produced a moment of magic with a well taken shot that precisely beat goalkeeper, Ibrahim Isihaka, who dived in vain. After the restart, both teams pushed hard for goals with Yanga looking the side more likely to score but failed to turn the chances created into goals. Gwambina introduced in Kapama Kibaden and James Mwanokia for Meshack Ibrahim and Pastory Athanas respectively, while Yanga brought in Ally Mtoni for Kelvin Yondani to strengthen their defence. In the 81st minute, Morrison wasted a clear chance to score as he forced himself inside the box but he shot wide. Two minutes later, the Ghanaian attacker danced past defenders and raced clear down the left before he played a cut back cross to substitute Mohamed Issa Banka, whose shot came off the frame of the goalkeeper. Banka had replaced Mapinduzi Balama. Three minutes before the final whistle, Yanga introduced Yikpe Gislain for Tariq Seif and Gwambina nearly got an equaliser but Kapama Kibaden missed the opportunity to take the match into the penalty shootouts. Meanwhile, Custodian Ramadhan Chalamanda was a hero after saving three postmatch penalties enabling Kagera Sugar FC to eclipse visiting KMC 3-1 in a thrilling ASFC encounter at the Kaitaba Stadium, reports Meddy Mulisa from Bukoba. The match had ended in a 1-1 draw after regulation time. Striker Mohamed Samata opened the score for KMC scoring with a sizzling shot in the 15th minute. He utilised a well-calculated pass from Hassan Kabunda. Kagera Sugar equalised in the 20th minute through Kevin Sabato, who unleashed a powerful kick, which caught custodian Jonathan Nahimana on the wrong foot.