HIGH Court Advocate Abdul Zulu Luyana appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam, facing three fraud charges, including money laundering. The 37-year-old lawyer is charged with leading organised crime, money laundering and obtaining over 60m/- from a foreigner by false pretences in a transaction involving a mineral deal. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Augustina Mbando, the member of the bar was not allowed to enter a plea to the charges because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate informed the accused person that her court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail, as money laundering he is accused of is not a bailable offence. She said that the case against the accused person will be tried by the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division of the High Court. The lower court could try the matter only upon securing consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). The court adjourned the case to February 10, 2020. State Attorney Gloria Mwenda, for the prosecution, informed the court that on that day. the advocate will be joined in the trial by two others. The case will be mentioned as investigations are incomplete. Prosecuting, the trial attorney told the court that the accused person committed the offences on diverse dates between January 1 and December 30, 2019 at various places within the City of Dar es Salaam. She alleged that within the period in the city, the accused and other persons not in court, jointly and together intentionally organised a criminal racket of money laundering. The court heard that at various places in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the accused person with others not in court acquired 26,250 US dollars, which is equivalent to 60,375,000/-. According to the prosecution, the accused person knew that at the time of such acquisition, the money in question was proceeds of a predicate offence of obtaining money by false pretences. It is alleged also that within the same period and places in Dar es Salaam, with intent to defraud, the advocate obtained the sum of money from one, Yasser Magdy Moawel Abdelhamad. The prosecution told the court further that the accused person falsely pretended that he and others would sell him 25 tonnes of copper cathode, which they knew to be false.