THE weighted average yield (WAY) for 15-year government bond is predicted to decline blaming investors’ appetite for long tenure instruments. The yield decline, according to debt market analysts, based on previous long term government bonds where yields are on falling trend. The 15 years treasury bond goes on sale tomorrow and yield curve projected to remain normal. Tanzania Securities said yesterday that high appetite thrived during the last longterm treasury auction held, with a high rate of oversubscription could possibly witness bids flooding for the auction and a decline in the WAY. “ Government securities yield curve may continue to remain normal and weighted average yields are expected to decline due to higher appetite of the government treasuries,” Tanzania Securities said via its Weekly Market Blast. Zan Securities said they are not anticipating change in rate movement for the tomorrow’s 15-year bond but investors should brace for “ more storm”. “ We do not expect a change in rate movement in the upcoming 15 year bond auction. “ We think investors should brace for more storm,” Zan CEO Raphael Masumbuko said in Weekly Market Wrap-Up. Fortnight ago, Orbit Securities said, investors’ appetite on the 20 years Treasury bond was seen increasing after oversubscribed by three times. The Bank of Tanzania offered the 20 years Treasury bond worth 117bn/- while the public raised a total tender size of 450.8bn/ - from 56 bids up from 43 bids during the previous auction. At the end of the day the central bank accepted 208 bids worth 113.55bn/- which was 3.0 per cent lower than the offer size. Orbit said the minimum successful price jumped 300 basis points (bps) to 95.1534 while the highest bid price jumped 484bps to 98.8450. The spread between the lowest and highest successful bid prices has been tightening over the auctions from 1,794bps during the first 20 years T-bond in September 2018 to 1,042bps during the auction under review. This said Orbit Securities, “ signalling an increasing demand from investors”. The weighted average yield to maturity (WAYTM) fell by 46.3bps to 16.76 per cent as the rank pushes to limit the cost of debt for the government while suppressing interest rates in the process. “ Considering the amount of demand, we expect a further decline of WAYTM and possibly bids at par,” Orbit said