THE government in the past four years spent a total of 5.9 bn/-in purchasing learning items for Secondary Schools which offer special needs education to students with hearing impairment and other disabilities. That was said here yesterday by the Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology Dr Avemaria Semakafu, while addressing 186 Secondary School teachers from 14 regions attending a seminar on sign language and deaf pedagogy in Tabora Region. She said that the government has put more effort to improve special needs education by supplying their Secondary Schools teachers with modern learning equipment. Dr Semakafu further said that the aim is to acquaint the teachers with modern teaching methods and equipment to assist them in their hearing difficulties so as to learn like any other ordinary student. In the course, she commended Archbishop Mihayo University College in Tabora (AMUCTA) for hosting the seminar for two consecutive years, and urged the participants to exploit the opportunity wisely. She noted that the training was mostly targeting the Secondary School teachers, who specialize on sign language and deaf pedagogy so as to enable them, communicate thoroughly with their special needs students. “Such training should be provided to all teachers whose Schools enroll more students with deaf impairment to enable the government provide them with quality education in all regions,” she added. Equally, the Deputy Permanent Secretary noted that after the training, Quality Assurance Officers from the Ministry of Education will visit such schools to assess the teachers’ performance. On his part, People with Disability Training Coordinator, Greyson Lazaro from the Ministry of Education said that communication between teachers and students through sign language is a big challenge the training would try to improve. AMUCTA Deputy Principal for Academic Affairs, Professor Henry Mnzale, applauded the government through the Ministry of Education for facilitating the training every year. He clarified that the training gives the teachers a room to learn important issues like sign language used in Tanzania, deaf pedagogy, audiological assessment, inclusive education, deaf diversity, psychology and assessment of hearing needs.