AS the world battles to control the coronavirus from spreading, Zanzibar health authorities have also announced the archipelago is on high alert over the deadly disease. In a joint meeting with the Second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, medical experts from Mnazi Mmoja hospital and Ministry of Health senior executives said necessary measures were being taken to stop the virus from penetrating into island. “We are working closely with the WHO and other health experts in the region to protect our people from contracting the disease,” said Ms Asha Abdalla, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Health. World Health Organisation (WHO)’s Health Emergencies Programme has urged countries in the whole world to be on alert to fight the coronavirus, which has killed many people, particularly in the Chinese city of Wuhan-the epicenter of the outbreak. But the virus has spread across China and to at least 17 countries globally, including Thailand, France, England, the US and Australia. There is no specific cure or vaccine. Meanwhile, the second vice-president has lauded the ‘Save a Child’s Heart’ (SACH), an Israel organisation working to save children from developing countries for organizing five-Day camp (from last Friday) here to diagnose children with heart complications. SACH is a humanitarian organization with a mission to improve the quality of paediatric cardiac care for children who suffer from heart diseases, and who cannot get adequate medical care in their home countries. “We thank doctors from Israel for their mission to save the lives of our children,” Ambassador Idi said as the SACH members promised that children diagnosed with serious cases of cardiac (heart) disease or needing further treatment will be sent to Israel to get paediatric cardiac care. According to the SACH head of mission Dr Mara Chapira, the paediatric cardiac five-day diagnosis and treatment camp at Mnazi Mmoja Hospital in the Stone Town, targets to reach at least 400 children. Both Ambassador Iddi and Dr Chapira stressed the strengthening of relations for the benefit of children, “This is a partnership between the Zanzibar Ministry of Health and SACH remains important for the development of children.”