IN his frequent speech es the Fifth Phase Government President John Pombe Magufuli (JPM) has been reminding fellow Tanzanians that no one would come from outside to develop this country. In this scenario, the President’s school of thought is simple and straight that even a country one may be tempted to allocate funds to help a local project, that money is their tax payers’ sweat and would hence come with string s attached. Th at ag ain reinforces h is idea th at th ere is no free lunch in th is planet, and if one does not want to work, one sh ould be ready to die, wh ich translates to h is slog an of h apa ni kazi tu. Shedding light on that, the public should be aware that no foreign aid would be enough to support domestic developments, and this means that all as nationals; We must carry our own cross and support the government in its initiatives, especially by seeing into it that each and everyone pays taxes. Once in Arumeru, the P resident reminded th e citizens th at even animals req uire water to drink, not a political party to th rive on. Implying th at dig g ing water, g uarding its source and such stuff, must come back to th e same citizens to ‘ sh oulder.’ That in a way shows wh y th e President has been tough against those who embezzle community projects’ funds for their own selfish ends. Once taxes are paid on time, the government would be at a position to discharge its numerous responsibilities for the same citizens, and these duties should be considered as essential obligations. On th e oth er side of th e coin, citizens sh ould know th at paying tax es is considered a civic duty th at th e law of the e land also reinforces. Just to quote Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.: “ Taxes are the price we pay for civilisation.” More specifically, taxes are th e price we pay for Tanzania we love. A well-functioning revenue system is a necessary condition for a strong, sustained and inclusive economic development. For th at matter, Tanzanians should know that tax es collected on goods or services would be spent in the same public sector for their own social benefit to run Health Centres and pay teachers who are teach ing our children. Taxes also, in turn, come back to them to pay for the military expenses guarding the country, and police maintaining law and order as well as their property against saboteurs. As citizens are being enlightened on the importance of paying tax es, one ought to also know that ignorance about tax payment, can lead one to a variety of problems. For that matter, every citizen should enquire to know how much one has to pay as tax. Once paid, the State would be able to provide maintain a streamlined government and run both visible and invisible services to its citizens including pension funds, welfare, and homeland security. Citizen should not groan for the burden of the tax, instead should think about the utilities that they receive from the taxes.