CONSTITUTION and Legal Affairs Minister Khamis Juma Mwalim launched ‘Legal Aid Week, reaffirming the government’s commitment to ensuring that all citizens had equal access to legal aid in their pursuit of justice. “During the days preceding the National Legal Day on February 7, 2020, we are educating members of the public about the availability of free legal aid services and how to access them,” Mr Mwalim told a press conference. Other events to mark the week include visiting different prisons (reformatory centres) and conducting outreach programmes on legal aid in rural areas. This year’s theme is “Legal aid is a pillar to the welfare of the people.” The minister urged Zanzibaris to learn and seek legal aid during Legal Aid Week. He said the week was introduced in recognition of the fact that many people, particularly in rural areas, still had a limited opportunity to knowledge of how to access legal aid. Mr Mwalim said, “the House of Representative of Zanzibar enacted the Legal Aid Act No 13 of 2018 which provides for protections of children’s rights through free legal aid services. This was followed by establishing legal aid under my ministry.” The press conference was also attended by the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary (PS) George Joseph Kazi and Director - Legal Aid Department, Ministry of Constitution and Legal Affairs Hanifa Ramadhan Said. She informed journalists that on Legal Aid Day this Friday, electronic registration (e-registration) of paralegals in the country would be inaugurated along with the launch of the Legal Aid Act in a simplified language. The PS emphasised the importance of ensuring access to justice for people and commended the recognition of paralegals in the country, saying the government fully recognised them. It is estimated that 195 and 95 paralegals are operating in Unguja and Pemba respectively. “Paralegals remain important as far as achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is concerned,” he said, adding that his office had been working hard to ensure no body was left behind in access to justice. Legal aid is reflected in SDGs 2030 No 5 (gender equality), No 10 (reduced inequalities) and No16 (peace, justice and strong institutions).