BENJAMIN Mkapa Hospital (BMH) Executive Director, Dr Alphonce Chandika, has hailed the Emergency Medicine Department (EMD) staff for marking the first anniversary with great achievements in health service delivery. Dr Chandika praised the EMD at the weekend, saying it had made great strides in health service delivery within a short time. The EMD marked its first year anniversary on Friday, unveiling plans to improve the provision of health services. The EMD is a medical specialty concerned with the care of illness or injury requiring urgent medical attention. For his part, the EMD head, Dr George Dilunga, said in a press statement released by the BMH Communication and Public Relations Unit yesterday that a number of people that the department attended to had increased from 1,500 in a month last year to 5,600 now. “Our plan is to improve the provision of health services. The presence of the EMD at the hospital has helped to lower deaths by 12 per cent,” reads part of the statement. Dr Dilunga said his department planned to embark on a programme to raise awareness on services available at the EMD, saying it targeted neighbouring health facilities. He urged members of the public to immediately take a person to hospital when sensing the person’s health was not normal because it helped to reduce deaths. In October, the EMD team from BMH was hailed by the hospital’s executive director for attending promptly to survivors of the oil tanker in Morogoro Region. “I wish to commend our emergency team for prompt response to the fire accident and participating fully in the provision of medical treatment to survivors of the oil tanker explosion in Morogoro Region,” said the boss. At least 71 people died and 59 others were seriously burnt after the oil tanker overturned and fire erupted following the spillover of petrol near Morogoro Regional Bus Terminal - Msamvu. The spillage was allegedly caused by people who had tampered with outlet valves so that they could easily draw fuel from the tanker. For his part, Dr Dilunga said the provision of medical treatment to the survivors was a great experience for his department