PETTY traders operating at Makoroboi market in Mwanza City yesterday broke down in tears after fire broke out there, razing down their wares as well as stalls. Speaking yesterday at the scene of the accident, Mwanza Regional Police Commander (RPC), Jumanne Muliro said fire broke out early in the morning. However, he said the Fire and Rescue Force in collaboration with the Tanzania People’s Defense Force (TPDF) soldiers successfully distinguished the fire before it caused very serious damages. The source of the fire, according to the regional police boss, is an electric fault that occurred in one of the refrigerators at the market which was not switched off the previous evening. “But we are still investigating further to determine the root cause of this fire,” he said. Mr Muliro explained that the major part of the operation was carried out by the regional fire brigade in collaboration with the team from TPDF, which prevented serious consequences. The fire, according to police, affected stalls within a radius of about 80 metres. However, the RPC assured the public that the situation was under control and that authorities were assessing the loss. More than 150 people lost their properties. Some tearful victims who spoke to the ‘Daily News’ said it would be very difficult for them to continue doing business as they had lost their capital, while others said life would be very tough as they had bank loans with which they started businesses. Sifa Silila, a petty trade, said one of their colleagues, identified only as Deus, had illegally connected electricity to fellow petty traders illegally. Silila, who sells clothes, said she had cautioned her colleagues against the illegal power connection but they ignored her. “I told him (Deus) that we did not need electricity and were operating here by the grace of President John Magufuli, but he convinced some colleagues to have the connections at rates ranging between 100,000/-and 170,000/-,” she said, adding: “I am very sad; it is Deus who has placed us into this mess. We did not need electricity here, and I request that this illegal connection be probed by the authorities,” said Shilla. She said President Magufuli was a person sent by God and believes he would help them. On his part, Mr Salehe Nyalobi, a resident of Mahina in Nyamagana District and a bag trader, said he was severely affected the fire as all his goods, mostly women’s items, were burnt. “My capital is 35m/-, but I have suffered a great loss. I started a business here with a capital of 5m/-and now I have been shattered,” he lamented. On his part, the National Chairman of traders, Mr Ernest Masanja, congratulated the government and the security organs, as well as the TPDF for their great work in saving soe of the traders’ items, and urged the traders to remain calm, as the government continues to evaluate the losses caused by the fire incident. Mr Masanja said between 50 and 70 out of 500 stalls were burnt. “I am asking my brothers and sisters to remain calm and not embark on blame apportioning game,” he said. On his part, the Mwanza Region Fire Rescue Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner, Mr Ambwene Mwakibete said because it was established that the source of the fire was due to an electrical fault, he advised the public seeking access to electricity to follow all the necessary procedures so that security procedures can be adhered to. “But when they build their stalls they must take fire precautions, by ensuring that the type of materials they use are safe in accordance with safety procedures,” he said. On her part, Nyamagana District Commissioner (DC), Dr Philis Nyimbi said the Regional Fire Brigade will cooperate with Tanzania Electric Supply Company staff to establish the source of the fire, as well as claims of illegal connections. She said a total of 65 stalls and 159 traders lost their goods, and urged them to form groups through Mwanza City Council so as to get interest-free loans to continue with their businesses.