THE government has started the process of formulating a new urban development policy, welcoming views from stakeholders after launching the National Urbanisation Roadmap for the policy in August last year. The Roadmap titled “Harnessing Urbanisation for Development: Roadmap for Tanzania’s Urban Development Policy”, was developed by the Tanzania Urbanisation Laboratory (TULab). The roadmap was derived from a number of background research papers and a competition which was held under the TULab, and these included, among others, a relationship between national and urban local government in Tanzania and its influence on the delivery of services and infrastructure. It also takes into account the issue of understanding the scope for urban infrastructure and service finance in Tanzania’s cities. Principal Economist of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Dr Lorah Madete, revealed on Tuesday that the government had embarked on a process of developing the policy. She was speaking at a stakeholders’ meeting organised by the TULab in Dar es Salaam. The TULab is run by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning in collaboration with Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF) and the Coalition for Urban Transitions (CUT). “So, we (the government) look forward to getting inputs from this gathering for the policy development,” Dr Madete told the stakeholders, including civil society organisations, academicians, researchers and development partners. One of the areas that the meeting would deliberate on is urban farming, focusing on smart farming for feeding a rapidly growing population in urban settings. “Urbanisation can cause challenges, but also bring opportunities,” ESRF’s Executive Director Dr Tausi Kida pointed out. She said the key issue after launching of the roadmap was now to figure out what next TULab should focus on. In recognition of TULab’s efforts, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) is developing a programme to address challenges affecting children and adolescents in the cities. The project is expected to provide a space for a bottom-up research programme to address children and adolescent needs in Tanzanian cities. On other hand, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has embarked on the New Urban Agenda and 2030 Agenda for inclusive, resilient and sustainable cities. The UNDP is seeking solutions for a complex set of problems that cities are facing today with respect to rapid urbanisation. “It is important to note that, ESRF, in collaboration with UNDP, have recently developed regional investment guides which present investment opportunities available in the respective regions. In this regard, we have identified many opportunities in cities including smart and precision farming,” Dr Kida noted. Many developing countries, including Tanzania, are experiencing high rates of population growth and unmatched urbanisation.