RUNAWAY leaders Simba opened 12 points gap at the summit of the Mainland Premier League table, following a 1-0 win over Lipuli at the Samora Stadium in Iringa yesterday. Second placed Azam FC were pegged by Coastal Union after suffering a 2-1 defeat at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday, while Yanga were held to a barren draw by Tanzania Prisons at the National Stadium in the city to give Simba much breathing space. Fit again skipper John Bocco scored the solitary goal for Simba in the first half, as the Msimbazi Reds have now bagged 56 points from 22 matches. Lipuli dropped one place down to tenth on 29 points from 22 outings. A positive start from the visitors nearly led to an early breakthrough as the first clear chance came in the 6th minute, when Clatous Chama found himself in space but took time to take his shot and Peter Mwangosi raced to block him. Three minutes later, goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, who kept another clean sheet, produced a super save, sweeping off a Kennedy Masumbuko’s shot at the near post for a corner kick. Sven Vandenbroeck charges were much into the limelight with packed midfield of Jonas Mkude, Chama, Francis Kahata and Hassan Dilunga running rings around their opponents as striking duo of Bocco and Meddie Kagere pressing hard for an opener. Simba were rewarded in the 23rd minute, when the best man on the pitch in the opening 45, Bocco, swept home a Kahata’s knock-down pass on the left. Bocco’s left foot shot from the edge of the box precisely beat goalkeeper, Deogratius Munishi for his third of the campaign. The defending champions maintained pressure in search for more goals as Lipuli opted to hit them on the break and in the 29th minute, Kenneth Wilson made a timely tackle to deny Daruwesh Saliboko a clear chance. After the break, Simba started strongly and in the 47th minute Bocco twisted and turned past Novart Lufunga but fired his shot agonisingly wide after being set clear by Chama. Both teams made changes in the second half with Said Mussa replacing Joshua Ibrahim, while Issa Ngoah came in for Kenneth Masumbuko. Simba introduced Luis Miquissone for Dilunga late in the second half. And, Simba survived a scare when substitute Issa Ngoah almost capitalised on defensive lapses to score an equaliser but his shot sailed wide. Then, Miquissone missed a chance to extend the lead two minutes before the final whistle after seeing his effort failing to hit the target. At the Uhuru Stadium, Azam dropped crucial points in the title race as Coastal Union hit them below the belt. Ayoub Lyanga netted the opener for the Tanga lads in the 37th minute and Mudathir Said extended the lead in the 64th minute but Obrey Chirwa scored consolation goal for Azam in the dying minutes of the game. Following the victory, Azam remained second on the log with 44 points from 22 matches, while Coastal Union are fourth on 38 points from 22 matches. Yanga remained third with 39 points from 20 matches. Elsewhere, Ruvu Shooting beat Mbeya City 1-0 thanks to Fully Maganga’s 50th minute strike at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast Region. Biashara United also registered a 1-0 win over Mwanza’s Alliance FC at the Karume Stadium in Musoma. Okorie James scored the solitary goal in the 45th minute. In another match, Ndanda FC beat Singida United 1-0 at Liti Stadium in Singida with Vitalisy Mayanga scoring the only goal ten minutes before the final whistle, while JKT Tanzania emerged with a1-0 win over Mtibwa Sugar following Danny Lyanga’s 33rd minute strike from the penalty spot. At the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, host Mwadui FC came from behind to force a 1-1 draw against Lindi’s Namungo FC, while Kagera Sugar beat Mbao FC 2-0 at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba. Eelier at the Uhuru Stadium, Polisi Tanzania beat KMC 3-2