BATTLE for the Women’s Mainland Tanzanian League title continues to heat up with Simba Queens and Alliance Girls engaged in tight race. Simba dislodged Alliance Girls from the league summit following a resounding 4-1 last Friday at Simba Mo Arena in Dar es Salaam. Before Simba Queens took over the wheel, Alliance Girls had been commanding the league for more than a month. Goals from Asha Jafar in 44th minute, Opa Clement in 49th minute and a brace from Mwanahamisi Omary in the 50th and 62nd minutes were enough to secure a win for Simba, while Alliance Girls’ effort ended with a consolation goal netted by Janeth Matulanga in the 47th minute. It was the first victory for Simba against the Mwanza based side since the league was introduced two seasons ago. In previous seasons, Simba met Alliance four times; Drew twice at Karume Stadium and lost twice at Nyamagana Stadium by 3-1 and 2-1. Following the latest win, Simba have now pocketed 26 points from ten matches. They have registered eight wins and two draws. Alliance Girls dropped second with a point behind Simba, after winning eight games, drew once and lost. Ruvuma Queens are placed third on the log with 24 points from ten matches, in which, they won seven and drew three. From the stand of things, Simba Queens together with Ruvuma Queens are the two teams that are yet to test the pinch of defeat this season. In other matches played on Friday, JKT Queens whitewashed Kigoma Sisters 7-0 in a lunch time kick off at Karume Stadium in Dar es Salaam, while Yanga Princess disciplined Marsh Queens 8-1 at the same venue later on. This game was kind of weird as Marsh Queens fielded only eight players without a single substitution. When the team management was questioned why? They responded that seven of their players left without notice and five others are training with national Under 17 team. Ruvuma Queens beat Tanzanite SC 4-0 at Majimaji Stadium in Songea, Panama Girls lost against Baobab Queens by 3-0 at Samora Stadium and TSC Queens lost by 2-1 against Mlandizi Queen at Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coastal Region. Defending champions JKT Queens are placed fourth position with 22 points from ten matches, winning seven times, two defeats and a draw, while Yanga Princess occupy fifth place with 15 points from ten matches following five wins and five loses. They are tied up with Mlandizi Queens but separated on superior goals advantage. Kigoma Sisters are placed seventh with 11 points in nine games they played winning three games, drew twice and four defeats. They are followed by Baobab Queens in eighth holding ten points with three wins, a draw and six lost. TSC Queens pocketed nine points after winning three games and lost seven and are tied in points with Marsh Queens after winning three games and lost six but are separated on goal difference. Tanzanite SC are second bottom after securing three points in a single game they won and lost other seven games and tied with the bottom placed Panama Girls but have slight edge of goal difference.