AIRTEL Tanzania has partnered with Mastercard and Selcom to launch Mastercard Q R Code Scan and Pay’, that enhances mobile money payments online and in stores. Speaking in Dar es Salaam during the launch yesterday, Airtel Money Director Isaack Nchunda said the partnership aims to transform digital payments in the country by enabling customers to make safe and secure mobile money payments online and in stores. “The introduction of “Scan & Pay” integration means all Airtel Money App registered users will now be able to securely pay for goods and services by scanning the Q R code at merchant locations that accept Mastercard Q R today,” he said. Airtel Money is not only a payment solution, but a platform with a range of digital financial options where customers have access to easier and faster transactions on their mobile phones. Customers who do not own smartphones can still continue to pay via USSD menu by entering the 8 -digit Pay number under Merchant Payments. “Airtel has been developing innovative and unique products and services that are in line with the current and fast developing lifestyle of our customers,” he said. We have been working extra hard to enhance and promote financial inclusion in our country, which is also one of the main economic drivers by our Government, he added. With the launch of the Mastercard Q R and virtual card digital payment solutions, we are strengthening our offerings to ensure our customers have safe, quick and convenient payment options on their mobile phones. The Director and Country Manager, East Africa, Mastercard, Frank Molla said, “We are very excited to continue strengthening our digital partnership strategy with Airtel in Tanzania. “Our aim is to offer easy, convenient and secure payment solutions that accelerate Tanzania’s digital transformation and advance financial inclusion. Airtel’s mobile money app now provides access to Mastercard’s global network of merchants, and customers without a bank account will also be able to make online payments globally with their Airtel Money Mastercard virtual card,” he noted. Selcom’s Executive Director, Mr. Sameer Hirji, said, “Airtel Money has contributed greatly towards financial inclusion and Selcom is pleased to have been part of this process enabling almost 50,000 merchants to receive payments digitally without the customer incurring any costs. Selcom looks to further this initiative through the financial empowerment of the merchant by creating access to finance to make it possible for the merchant to borrow to grow - whether it is through the provision of much-needed cash injections or setting up mechanisms to mitigate against shocks. “We look forward to continuing to add to the MCQ Raccepting merchant base and developing products focused around the merchant’s financial empowerment,” he said. In addition, through the Mastercard virtual card, customers are able to shop online and gain greater access to digital goods and services as Tanzania’s Internet penetration grows. Airtel Communications Director, Beatrice Singano said, “The volume of digital transactions are expected to grow at a rate of three times of developed economies in 2020. As one of the mobile money providers in the country, we are working to ensure our customers are able to have access to modern and innovative financial services. Our vision is to provide unique and affordable products and services which impact the way our customers transact daily, she added. The launch of Mastercard Q R and Mastercard virtual card on the Airtel Money app is part of our commitment to support the Government of Tanzania on their digitization vision. The Airtel Money app will also extend the usage of the Airtel Money wallets to global online payments through the Mastercard Q R and virtual card products.