RORYA District through the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) has set aside a total of 3,033,386,147.57/- for the implementation of about 30 water projects to ease the availability of the precious liquid at the grassroots level. The projects will include the completion of newly introduced projects as well as the rehabilitation of water pipes that will be connected to other small water sources in over 40 villages in the district which includes the ongoing Mega Rorya-Tarime water scheme. Speaking during the councilors meeting held in Utegi town recently, Rorya District RUWASA Manager, Emmanuel Massanja said the Tanzanian government is making urgent consultations with their Indian counterparts who are funding the projects.. ‘’The government is concluding the final touches that include seeking permission from the Indian government so that the concerned tender will be announced to get a reliable contractor who will be charged with the responsibilities to conclude the project in due course, ‘’said Massanja. He said earlier the government in collaboration with Indian government had agreed to supervise the implementation of the grand project connected from the Lake Victoria at Kyangasanga village that will be distributing water to Rorya District as well as the neighboring Tarime District including the border township of Sirari. The manager revealed that RUWASA in Rorya District has also requested additional funds to implement other projects that are funded by the central government through the National water fund envisioned to complete other stalled schemes. ‘’RUWASA has also received a total of 12,838,932/-which will be used for the rehabilitation of electricity supply to all water pipes that were installed previously at Kirogo area that has been experiencing leakages and thus causing unnecessary loss of water,’’ he added. Mr Massanja said currently, the purchasing of installation equipment was underway through RUWASA headquarters whereby all projects are being implemented through the force account and the whole scheme will be completed by June 2020. He said the major responsibility of the water watchdog is to monitor and evaluate performance of community organisations in relation to rural water supply and sanitation services envisioned to promote and sensitize grassroots communities on sanitation, hygiene education as well as protection of rural water sources. ‘’It includes provision of financial and technical support to community organizations for major maintenance of rural water schemes aimed at providing support to community organisations in relation to management, operation and maintenance of rural water supply schemes’’. he added