SIMBA SC Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck his players’ slow pace made it difficult to find a winning solution against resilient Stand United despite navigating his side to the last eight of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). Post-match penalty shootouts had to be played to separate the two sides as Simba progressed after a 3-2 spot kick victory at a packed Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga on Tuesday following a 1-1 balance at the end of normal period of play. The hosts responded back via a fantastic goal by Miraji Salehe midway in the second half to cancel the opener netted Hassan Dilunga through a spotkick. Dilunga also converted the fifth penalty that drove his team into the quarterfinal stage. It was a continuation of the season’s success by Simba in all competitions as they always play with determination to win , hence they still have a chance to win double silverware this season. But, briefing reporters after the tense battle, Vandenbroeck openly admitted that his side faced a difficult moment to find winning solution against an opponent he said played with many people behind the ball. “It was very hard for us to find solutions because we did not play fast enough and the pitch was not good to enable us play short passing game hence it was hard to find space behind their defence,” he said. He added that after scoring the penalty, they dominated the encounter only to let the hosts come back back via what he described as a technical error by his defender. “It was not a great performance from us but rather guys put much effort to win the match and we did not undervalue out opponents insisting that they are ready for their next opponent in the last eight category,” said he. On his part, Dilunga who had a positive impact throughout the match said they have already set up to claim two titles at the end of the season. “Whenever you play against a small team, they always work hard and we were surprised by their performance because we hardly thought that it will end in post-match penalties,” Dilunga said. He added that he did not celebrate after scoring because he had a marvellous stay at Stand United after leaving Young Africans. Stand United coach Atuga Manyundo said his game plan worked despite losing the chance to go further in the contest. “When you talk about a big club in the country, obvious it is Simba. I respect them but I came up with my own plan since I thoroughly know them after meeting in the past two matches and today (Tuesday) was my third time to play against Simba,” Manyundo managed to crush out Simba in the same competition while coaching Mashujaa FC narrated. In a related development, Namungo FC coach Hitimana Thiery lauded his side for cruising into the next round after seeing off Mbeya City 2-1 at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya on Tuesday. “It was fifty-fifty affair but we misused a lot of good scoring chances mainly due to fatigue by my players but the good thing is that we have moved on in the contest and looking forward to our next opponent,” he said.