THE highly anticipated ‘one stop’ Tanzanite Gemstones processing and export centre has been officially launched at Mirerani Mining Hills of Simanjiro, in Manyara Region. The facility was inaugurated on Monday by the Minister of Minerals, Dotto Biteko. The ‘One Stop Mineral Trading Centre,’ complements the 24.5 kilometres’ long perimeter wall fencing surrounding the Tanzanite quarries of Mirerani and which was erected by the National Service (JKT) under the orders of President John Magufuli. Speaking during the launching ceremony, Lieutenant Colonel Sauli Chiwanga who supervised the construction of the centre, explained that the project cost over 1.4 billion/- and took 14 months to accomplish. “The building measures 717 square metres, has 22 rooms split into various departments including the Police, Immigration, Camera Surveillance Unit, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Banking facilities and the official trading hub,” he said. Mineral Minister, Dotto Biteko said the surveillance system which has been installed around the fence is computer operated and capable of identifying faces of all people, triggering alarms upon detecting listed criminals, wanted persons and other forbidden characters. The Mirerani perimeter wall is now also installed with special security flood lights system that can transform any dark night into well-lit environment for added security. Describing the feat as major stride towards improved mineral trading in the Northern Zone, Minister Biteko pointed out that when the wall was erected revenues from Tanzanite Gemstones climbed up to over 445 million/- per month. Meandering at nearly 25 kilometres long, the ‘Great Mirerani Wall’ is probably the longest fort ever built in the country, if not in the entire East African Region, with the works being undertaken by the army through the National Service (JKT) arm. Shortly after the walls were inaugurated two years ago, the Manyara Region authorities have started issuing Identity Cards for people who work in the mines and so far, 6000 miners have been issued with such IDs. The government had also directed all quarry owners and mining operators to issue their workers with permanent employment contracts to safeguard their interests, including salaries, security cover and health needs. Notorious smuggling of Tanzanite Gemstones is what prompted the government to erect a wall surrounding the mineral extracting zone in Mirerani. Recent reports indicate that Tanzanite Gemstones worth nearly 700 billion/- are smuggled out of the country annually through illegal means with the lot ending up in the neighbouring country of Kenya and to as far as India and South- Africa.