AS Twiga Stars face Morocco in the Union of North Africa Football Federation (UNAF) Championship today the team’s Head Coach, Bakari Shime is confident for another victory after two consecutive wins. Shime, whose charges demolished Algeria 3-2, said he was working on sharpening the squad in a bid to post the third victory against Morocco today. Whereas Shime said he was delighted with both the 7-0 victory over Mauritania and the latest against Algeria and lavished praises to the q uality playing of his charges despite facing several difficulties and challenges, especially in their second game against Algeria. “My players played extremely well, they also coordinated well, but there is issue of speed that needs immediate attention. We were lucky to score an opener in the 11th minute, but they eq ualised in the 22nd minute and later in the 45th minute they added the second. B ut Mwanahamisi Omary saved us when she equalised two minutes later.” “Our opponents were good. They had a number of advantages including height superiority and looked stronger and faster than us which was an advantage to them. The game has made us see several mistakes and weaknesses that we shall work on them.” Tanzania has two more games; after today’s match against Morocco, they will play against hosts Tunisia on February 22nd. If Twiga Stars win the two remaining games, they will be crowned UNAF championship as unbeaten team of the tournament. Currently, Twiga Stars are firmly leading the chase for the UNAF title after posting 6 points while scoring 10 goals and conceding only 2 goals. Hosts Tunisia are second with 3 points after playing two games; winning 3-0 against Mauritania while conceding 1-0 loss to Morocco prior to meeting Mauritania. Morocco are placed third with 3 points while Algeria, who are still point-less fourth. At the bottom of the table are Mauritania who have scored no goal, conceded 10 goals. Adding, Coach Shime said he was delighted with the performance of Mwanahamisi Omary, who is currently the top scorer of the tournament. Speaking to her coach, the player thanked her coach’s inspiration for her feat. She netted the brace in their match against Algeria. Mwanahamisi was a star of the game, as showed a classy performance. More so her ability to move with the ball and shoot out of the box was spectacular. “This is all I have ever wanted, scoring for my national team or assisting others to score. I am so proud, happy and thankful to God of this achievement, more so for the trust that my Head Coach has put on me.” “I would not have achieved all these, if it was not his fruits. Our outstanding performance is the fruit of his commitment and time he spends to train us.