THE newly appointed Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Hassan Abbasi,says he will not endorse any procurement contract with any private supplier who has not signed an integrity pledge. The workers in the ministry have also been informed to be ready for new speed of performance while guided by rules and regulations. Dr Abbasi gave the directive on Friday during his first meeting with the ministry workers shortly after taking their public servant integrity pledge before him as Ethics Secretariat per requirement. He directed the management to ensure that all procurement documents are attached with a copy of the private company’s integrity pledge, short of which such a minute sheet will not see the light of the day. Dr Abbasi said he wants the ministry to be the government soft power, thus being guided by integrity, patriotism and accountability is of paramount importance. He said the Ethics Secretariat has made the issue of integrity of great value by both public and private sector which are now bound to sign the pledge to that effect. The Permanent Secretary called upon workers to work and march together, driven by hard work, commitment and fast pace to serve the public as they observe rules and needed procedures that guide their jobs. He vowed to make close monitoring to see if the workers in their service delivery are led by the integrity pledge they signed. He urged them to refrain from gossip and hatred, and instead work to the fullest for improved economy. Acting Deputy Secretary of the Ethics Secretariat (Central Zone), Ms Jasmin Awadhi Bakari, in her presentation said a national ethics policy is underway to cater for needs. She said the integrity pledge was in force since 2015 which both private and public are supposed to sign to express their commitment to observe ethics and fight corruption. She said for the public servants, the integrity pledge is signed either before the permanent secretary while for the private sector the companies must sign the document by Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA). Ms Bakari said the government chose to have the integrity pledge to include the private sector as well since public servants were at the centre of attention, leaving behind the private companies which were said to be the givers. She insisted on the need to observe and live to their pledge by making their personal evaluation and analysis on how one is conducting and offering services as well address issues of unethical tendencies at work places.