EMBATTLED preacher of the Arise and Shine Ministry of Tanzania Boniface Mwamposa and seven others who were under police custody in connection with a church service stampede that left 20 people dead have been released on bail. They are now required to continue reporting to police while investigations into the case they are facing is underway. On Saturday night, 20 worshippers died while others sustained injuries during a church meeting in Moshi municipality in Kilimanjaro Region led by Mwamposa. The fatal incident occurred as worshipers of the church rushed to get ‘anointed’ with the blessed oil administered by the pastor. The casualties from the stampede include 15 adults and five on the same day only to be arrested in the country’s capital, Dar es Salaam the next day, Sunday. On Tuesday, Police Force Spokesperson David Misime noted in a media statement that law enforcers were still delving into the matter and suspects were bailed. “In our investigations, we arrested eight people including Mwamposa in connection with the incident. We intensively grilled them and after we are satisfied that we got all information we needed, we granted bail to them as per legal procedures,” he said. Mr Misime noted that after the incident, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro dispatched a team of experts to Kilimanjaro to beef up the investigation process. He added that the investigation was still underway and upon completion, the file will be handed over to relevant authorities for further action. Meanwhile, an official of Kilimanjaro Referral Hospital, Josephine Kimario, said that 12 out 16 wounded worshippers who were admitted to the health facility had been discharged. Residents of Kilimanjaro and the neighbouring regions were on Monday led by Regional Commissioner Anna Mghwira to pay their last respects to the deceased. In her eulogy, the RC assured the multitude of mourners that President John Magufuli had tasked her office to form a probe team to investigate the matter, with a view of averting such incidents in the future. “I spoke to the President before coming here…besides conveying his sincere condolences to the bereaved, he has also asked us to delve into the matter thoroughly,” said the tearful RC. Addressing the mourners, the regional boss said the government had not outlawed such religious denominations, but had instructed regional authorities to do vet ssuch religious groups. According to Ms Mghwira, the regional leadership would meet with religious leaders in the region to reflect on the incident and look on how to prevent a recurrence of similar incidents in future.