THE government has said it is drafting a new investment law that would address current challenges in the market and as well as manage competition in the world. The Minister of State, Prime Minister’s Office responsible for investment, Angella Kairuki made the revelation yesterday, adding that the new law will improve investment in the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. “I believe the new law which will be modern in nature will help investors in our country to rip benefits in the three key sectors,’’ she said. That was when Ms Kairuki was officially opening the 6th Annual Agricultural Policy Conference (AAPC) held at Dodoma’s Treasury Square in the city. The three-day conference brought together key players in the agricultural sector to deliberate on how the country could improve specific policies, which would boost food security, nutrition and job creation in the country. According to the Chairman of the Policy Analysis Group (PAG), Audax Rukonge, some key development partners which are attending the conference include some government officials and representatives from Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA as well as World Bank, FAO and the UN Women. The conference is sponsored by USAID, FAO, World Bank, TADB, UN Women, JICA, AGRA, ASPIRES, TAHA, Dalberg and FSDT. The three-day meeting is held with the theme ‘Public and Private Sector Investment for Agricultural transformation in Tanzania: Tackling Agribusiness Drivers and Enablers in Crops, Livestock, Fisheries and Agro-processing.’ Speaking at the occasion, the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Water, Mahmoud Mgimwa said the theme came at the right time when the country was striving to attain a middle income economy. In this regard, Mr Mgimwa asked researchers to come up with correct and realistic findings that can help the legislature to advice the government in issues pertaining to investment in the agricultural sector. The representative of Development partners Andrew Read from USAID urged the development partners to join hands with the government in the dream of attaining a middle income country by 2025. He also insisted that nutrition should be highly emphasized so that the country attains a healthy population that would propel it towards attaining the industrialization goal. On his part, the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries on behalf of his Minister, Luhaga Mpina said the conference was vital for the country to realize its dream(s). Earlier, the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries in (responsible for livestock), Prof Elisante Ole Gabriel, said that the government has all it takes to realize its dream. Elaborating, he said that the country has about 32.5 million cows, goats (20 million), donkeys (5.5million), chicken (79.1million) and 2.8 billion kilogrammes of different species of fish in its water bodies. The country has 16.6 million youths, where 13.2 million of them, equivalent to 81.4percent are agribusiness, implying that their contribution in the industrial economy, cannot be underestimated. “My minister and I are more than willing to improve our policies in order to improve livestock and fisheries in the country,” said the PS.