OVER 400 women in Dodoma Region have received training on women and leadership in a bid to groom them to vie for leadership positions in the next general elections slated for October this year. With funds from the Government of Canada under the Canadian Fund for Local Initiative (CFLI) it will empower the womenfolk to actively participate in local and national electoral processes in Tanzania. Locally, the training was organised and coordinated by a Dodoma based Non-Governmental Organisation— Women Wake Up (WOWAP) in its second phase, where it will run various trainings to reach over 800 women in Dodoma Region. In its first phase, the NGO provided training to over 400 women in its efforts to ensure that they participate in the civic polls that were conducted in November last year. An assessment by WOWAP, according to the NGO’s Executive Director, Fatma Tawfiq shows that many women in Dodoma Region turned up to vote or be voted for in the last elections. Since last week, WOWAP embarked on its second phase in its bid to instill confidence in the womenfolk so that they participate in decision making and vie for elective posts in the next general election. Speaking during the training recently, Women Economic Empowerment Coordinator at Dodoma City Council, Hidaya Abdallah said they have been working with WOWAP to ensure that they build confidence in the population so that they do not hesitate to vie for political positions. “We gather women from various groups so that they understand and face stumbling blocks, this includes advising them accordingly, so that we have a good number of them get involved as representatives in Parliamentary and Councillorship seats in the next national election,’’ she noted. One of the trainees Pendo Mwakibasi, who lives at Mkonze in the outskirts of the city, said that many women lack confidence and that is why they hesitate to vie for political positions. “I have fully gained confidence after this training and I request that more education be provided to other women so that they can turn up in big numbers during the coming election,’’ she said.