TANZANIA has the best electoral commission which is independent and free from any kind of interference, the government stressed on Thursday. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa told the National Assembly in Dodoma that the government was fully respecting the country’s constitution under which the National Electoral Commission (NEC) was formed. The assurance has come amid complaints from some political parties and other commentators who argue that the country needs a free and independent electoral body. The PM assured lawmakers that NEC was fully independent. He also talked of the much touted political party forums, insisting that as per the law, elected leaders are allowed to conduct political activities only in their specific areas of representation. The Premier was responding to the question raised by the leader of the opposition camp in the parliament, who is also the Member of Parliament for Hai constituency on Chadema ticket, Mr Freeman Mbowe. In his question, Mr Mbowe argued that the electoral body wasn’t independent and that immediate interventions had to be taken on that. “But as we are heading to the general election, I would like to know when the electoral body will release the schedule that will specify the exact date for political parties to start the process,” he remarked. Mr Majaliwa maintained that the NEC was fully independent according to the constitu tion and it had never been interfered with in any way. “Everything will be made clear as what happened during the election for local government; the same was said by the minister of state recently, and for me I just want to insist that our electoral body is free according to article 78 and 74, section 7, 11 and 12 of our constitution of 1977,” he explained. According to him, sections in the constitution that formed NEC provide that the body should be free from interference from anywhere, even the president, political party or authority. He also assured that there was no legislator or councillor who had been blocked from engaging in politics in one’s areas of representation. “In any case you have problems, let’s communicate and see how best we can go about it,” said the premier during the question and answer session.