THE Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo has issued a three- day ultimatum to Kalambo District Council Executive Director (DED), Mr Msongela Palela to appear before the Regional Defence and Security Committee, because they have a case to answer. He said that Kalambo DED will have explain why he failed to implement seven directives issued by the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Luhanga Mpina over the rehabilitation of the then modern Kasanga fish market that has remained idle for more than eight years since its inauguration. The same directive, he said must apply to members of a team earlier formed by the minister to evaluate the existing infrastructures of the fish market located along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika at Kasanga Ward in Kalambo District. The fish market was constructed in 2011 and after few days its cold room wall developed wide cracks, which rendered it dormant all along. The market construction was pegged at 802.4 m/-and was officially opened by the then Vice- President, Dr Mohamed Gharib Bilal in 2011. Earlier, the Minister issued the seven directives in October last year, while in a working tour in Rukwa region, where he had an opportunity to visit the market only to meet fishermen with grievances that their fish lack storage and market because the one there was inactive. In response, the RC Mr Wangabo, said that among the minister’s directives, the operations at the market had to start by December 31 last year, adding that their directive was not honoured by the DED Palela. On his part, acting Head of Economy and Production from Rukwa Regional Secretariat, Mr Respich Mayengo told the RC that the Minister directed the DED to ensure that the market started its operation on 1st January, 2020. He further added that the minister gave Mr Palela two months’ ultimatum from October 30, last year to execute his order. “Likewise the Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Mr Bernad Makali reminded the DED via official letter, he wrote and dispatched that he ensures that until January 20, this year the minister’s directives were implemented. Until to-date DED has not responded to RAS’s official letter and nothing has been done” he added. Commenting, the Kasanga Ward Fishermen Chairman, Khalfan Said noted that about 70,000 residents living close to the fish market actively engage in fishing activities and annually produce 190,000 tonnes of fish, but lack market because of the weakness . “The fish market has totally failed to provide opportunity for us as fishermen, traders and stakeholders to participate fully in the business.