TANZANIA is set to play an important role in the fight against climate change following the ongoing investment in graphite production, one of the materials essential for making of electric vehicle batteries. Minister for Minerals Doto Biteko said at the weekend that graphite demand was on the rise due to its various uses, including batteries making. Mr Biteko was speaking at the launch of village offices in Mahenge, Ulanga District, constructed by Mahenge Resources, a subsidiary company of the Australia-based Black Rock Mining in collaboration with villagers. He said graphite had a wide variety of uses, including making phone batteries and, therefore, its value was expected to increase as the world shifted to electric vehicles to mitigate the effects of climate change. “It is my hope that Tanzania will enormously contribute to the fight against climate change once electric vehicles take off as we will be proud of our graphite produced in Mahenge,” he said. The minister further said it was the government’s expectations that the mining sector would contribute 10 per cent of the GDP by 2025, noting that it would be possible only if the government continued establishing new mines in the country. He called upon all executives in the mining sector and people living near mines to create a friendly environment to both local and foreign investors. Mr Biteko said Mahenge Resources project was an important part of the construction of major mines in the country and would make Mahenge in Ulanga District one of the best graphite producers in the world. He, however, said the government had taken a number of initiatives to ensure the mining sector benefited the nation. Mr Biteko noted that the establishment of mineral trading centres had helped to boost revenue collection in the sector. He said Ulanga was endowed with a variety of minerals, but previously neither its people nor the government was benefiting from the natural resource. Mr Biteko explained that the establishment of a mineral trading centre in the district had helped to boost government revenue. He said during his tour of Ulanga District, while he was serving as Deputy Minister for minerals, he discovered that minerals sold from Epanko Mine in five years was worth 4m/-, but after the establishment of the mineral trading centre the revenue increased to 396m/- in just five months. Black Rock Chief Executive Officer (CEO) John de Vries said Mahenge could play an important role in mitigating the impact of climate change through the use of graphite in lithium ion batteries to replace internal combustion engines in cars. “Climate change is increasingly a critical issue of our time and important for our children’s time. Mahenge is globally important for saving our planet,” he said.