THE Government has been handed a one stop-centre building for tanzanite traders that is worth over a building worth 1.3bn/- amid reports that small scale miners have leapfrogged the big ones by paying over 2.7bn/- in tax. Small scale miners proved their worth when the big ones went on a go slow, closing down their mines and the Government has commended the former for displaying patriotism as before that they were paying about 164m/- per annum. The Minister of Minerals Mr Doto Biteko said here while receiving the building that the government values the small scale miners so much because they have elevated status of the sector through revenue increase and the government will be supporting them. He expressed his joy that small scale miners carried on with mining and trade activities in difficult environment, earning themselves income but taxes to the government as well, leading them to surpass big tanzanite dealers who by then, almost three years back, were paying 1.1bn/- in taxes to the government per year. Mr Biteko called upon the small scale miners to keep on working with the government. Handing over the building that was constructed by SUMA-JKT, the Minister of Defence and National Service, Dr Hussein Mwinyi who expressed his contentment to the way they carried out its duties and completed the construction as directed. Dr Mwinyi also thanked the Ministry of Minerals for trusting SUMA-JKT that they would construct the building, and other infrastructure in different parts of the country, in accordance with the set standards. “I also take this opportunity to commend army officers and other soldiers who in one way or another have contributed in making construction of this modern one-stop centre building a success and today we hand it over to the Ministry of Minerals,” said Dr Mwinyi. Acting Manyara Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Chelestino Mofuga hailed Minister Biteko for a job well done since he was appointed to the position, making the sector one of the highest in paying taxes to the government and making better lives of the citizens. Simanjiro Member of Parliament, Mr James Ole Millya asked the Ministry of Minerals to offer some idle mines to common people so that they could as well turn around their lives. The government is going on to check mining and minerals trade to ensure they are not smuggled out of the country, but are sold at the set-up centres in every mineral-producing regions where trade hubs have been put in place.