EUPHORIA gripped the residents of Mdindo, Kisewe and Nawenge villages in Ulanga District, Morogoro Region when a graphite mining firm handed over three village office buildings to them. The inauguration of the buildings held recently at Nawenge village was attended by Minister for Minerals Mr Doto Biteko, Mining officials, Ulanga District authorities, village and Ward leaders. Despite the heavy rains that hit the area, the villagers still turned up in large numbers to witness the handover of the buildings as they were optimistic that the ongoing investment in their locality by the mining firm will help to improve their welfare. The buildings worth 51m/ - financed by Mahenge Resources Limited—a subsidiary company of Australian –based Black Rock Mining as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) was built in collaboration with the residents from the three villages. Tanzania being one of the countries in Africa blessed with a variety of mineral resources, the government has been taking various measures to ensure that local communities reap better benefits from the mining, apart from contributing to the national coffers. It has been stressing on the importance of mining companies to honour their CSR obligations. The Black Rock Mining Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Mr John de Vries said; “building the three offices is part of the firm’s commitment towards responding to people’s needs.” According to him success is about making the lives of others better, working together to create a brighter future. Ensuring that our Community and Social Responsibility create positive impact is both a privilege and significant obligation. “When we asked you, (the potentially affected persons), what you wanted, the response was “we want better housing”, we want our communities preserved. We want the keys to our new home. We have heard you. “Give us the keys” is our approach to RAP. “Give us the keys” underlies a commitment to families, to communities to futures. Today we start with the keys to the village offices,” de Vries said. He said the building of the village offices in partnership with the people of Kisewe, Mdindo and Nawenge villages to them, represents the first part of the company’s promise of “giving the keys”. “In commencing our programme of “hand over the keys” we start with your village offices. We also start with completing the RAP process and we agree on fair and reasonable compensation for all affected people,” he said. The CEO, however, said Mahenge can play an important role in limiting the impact of climate change through the use of graphite in lithium ion batteries to replace internal combustion engines in cars. “Climate change is increasingly the critical issue of our time and importantly of our children’s time … Mahenge is globally important in saving our planet ,” he said. He, however, noted that over the last four years they have demonstrated that Mahenge graphite is one of the best graphite in the world. Mahenge Resources is now finalising a resettlement plan before moving ahead with mobilising financing for building its mine. Minister for Minerals Mr Dotto Biteko said the government has taken a number of initiatives to ensure that mining industry was beneficial to the nation and local communities. Mr Biteko said the establishment of mineral trading centres has helped to boost revenue collected from the sector. He said Ulanga is endowed with varieties of minerals but previously neither its people not government was benefiting from the natural resource. Minister Biteko said that the establishment of a mineral trading centre in the district has helped to boost the government revenue. He said during his tour of Ulanga District while he was serving as deputy minister for minerals, he discovered that minerals which were sold from Epanko mine in period of five years worth 4m/ - but after the establishment of the mineral trading centre the revenue increased to 39 6 m/ - in just five months. He called upon all executives in the mining sector and people surrounding the mines to create friendly environment to both local and foreign investors. Mr Biteko said Mahenge Resources project was an important part of the construction of major mines in the country and will make Mahenge area in Ulanga District one of the best graphite producers in the world. He, however said, Tanzania is set to play an important role in the fight against climate change following ongoing investments in graphite production, one of the materials essential to the making of electric vehicle batteries. Mr Biteko said graphite demand was on the rise due to various uses including batteries making. He said graphite has a wide variety of uses including making phone batteries and therefore its value is expected to increase as the world shifts to electric vehicles as remedy to the effects of climate changes. “It is my hope that Tanzania will enormously contribute to fight against climate change once the electric vehicles take off as we will be proud of our graphite produced at Mahenge,” he said. Ulanga District Executive Director, J onas Mahosa said that investment being done by Mahenge Resources was crucial for the development of the district and the country at large. He said despite the fact that the investor hasn’t started operating, “we’ve started seeing the benefit of mining sector.” He said the authorities were working hard to create friendly environment for investors and ensure that residents were highly involved in every stage related to the project including evaluation process for people who are to be compensated to pave way for the project to kick off, and we’ve started appointing resident representatives to the evaluation team. Ulanga MP, Goodluck Mlinga said that the government has moved in to ensure the prospecting and mining is done in accordance with the law and in an orderly way, and ensure that there is a win-win situation between residents and residents. He said if all goes as planned Mahenge will attain quick socioeconomic development, thanks to the presence of Graphite and other minerals as in most cases investors conducting mining activities need better roads which will open up opportunities in the area.