NATIONAL women football team, Twiga Stars kicked off their campaign in the Union of North African Football Federations (UNAF) tournament strongly, after thrashing Mauritania 7-0. In the match played at the AlKaram Stadium in Rades, Tunisia yesterday, Twiga Stars were unstoppable from the word go. The five-nation tournament features Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria, with Mauritania and two-time CECAFA champions Tanzania participating as guest nations in the absence of Egypt and Libya. Bakari Shime charges dominated the game from the kickoff and had the lion share of possession in the first half which they scored all the goals. It was Amina Ally, who broke the deadlock in the 13th minute, before Oppa Clement doubled the lead four minutes later. Enekia Kasonga made it three in 27th minute. Asha Hamza and Mwanaha misi Omary scored a brace each. Asha netted the fourth in 25th before Mwanahamisi got the fifth after half an hour mark and Asha again grabbed her brace a minute before the breather. There was still time for Mwanahamisi to also score her second in the 45th minute to see Twiga Stars go into the halftime break with a strong command of the game. In the second stanza, Twiga Stars merely turned the game to a practice session and did not score more goals. After a positive start in the tournament, Twiga Stars will be back in action tomorrow when they face Algeria and their third game will be against Morocco on Tuesday and their fourth game will be against hosts Tunisia on February 22nd. On Thursday, Morocco will face Mauritania, while Tunisia will battle it out with Algeria. Two days later, Morocco will complete their outing against Algeria. The round-robin women’s competition will reach its climax on February 22. Twiga Stars are using the games as part of preparations for the upcoming 2020 African Women’s Cup of Nations qualifiers. Tanzania will be aiming to claim the North African title following their failure to win the 2019 CECAFA Women’s Championship at the expense of Kenya on home soil last November. Twiga Stars squad in Tunisia include; Tausi Abdallah, Anastazia Katunzi, Enekia Kasonga, Juliet Singano, Happy Hezron, Fatuma Issa, Fatuma Hassan and Amina Ally. Others are Diana Lucas, Asha Rashid, Mwanahamisi Omary, Phiromena Daniel, Opa Clement, Violeth Machela, Fatuma Hatibu, Asha Hamza, Eva Jackson, Zubeda Owen, Ester Mabanza and Aisha Masaka.