IT goes without saying that, Tanzania pulses are very essential crops, most especially for trading. With a small share in local consumption, one can properly brand it as a cash crop. If you want to prove it, see how production trajectory goes south in an unprecedented sharp manner the moment international markets crumble. It is that simple. There are number of pulses produced in Tanzania, but for today’s sake we shall concentrate on a bundle of four pulses commodities only, namely; Kidney beans, Chickpeas, Pigeon peas and Green grams. So according to exports statistics received from Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), last year was yet another unique year that saw a total of 190,391 tons of the above mentioned bundles. This is well above 2018’s exports that was at 174,512 tons, a nearly 10% increase. Nonetheless, this simplistic overview may project a totally different and misleading conclusion when trying to assess our performance. As you will come to decipher, majority of individual pulses shows a totally different trend from the cumulative projection. The following is the brief analysis of the individual performance of individual pulses. Analysis will largely try to compare last year’s data visà-vis the preceding one. Kidney beans While blanket export view shows that there is an appreciation of pulses exports, kidney beans performance shows a rather opposite direction. Last year’s export of kidney beans stood at 1,202 tons well below previous year’s 2,845 tons – nearly a 58% decline. As opposed to 2018 exports which largely found their way to Pakistan, last year reveals a totally different export destination as India took the top most position as the leading importers of Kidney beans from Tanzania. Pakistan received only 24 tons in the month of March as opposed to previous year’s 2,270 tons – peak performance. Little is known of this dramatic change, efforts are underway to establish the facts behind this dynamic divergence. Green grams This is yet another product that managed to divert from a general performance of pulses exports. Last year observed a steep decline in export of green grams, from 44,895 in 2018 to 18,362 tons in 2019 – a 60% decline. The decline can be explained by India’s persistence on imposing quantitative restrictions on importation of green grams, pigeon peas, peas and black grams. This is in place for two years, since June 30, 2018. Contrary to kidney beans, there was no major change in the destination of green grams as India kept on being the dominant export destination as it used be in the past years. This means that if India will take fast hold of its restrictions again this year, it is certain that fewer amount of green grams will find its ways out of this country and as a result production thereof will be highly discouraged. Pigeon peas According to TRA exports statistics, Tanzania exported a sum total of 83,649 tons of pigeon peas last year, down from 85,865 tons in 2018 – a mere 3 per cent decline. Staring at two years comparison may mislead one’s analysis, but if one needs to get a true picture of the pigeon peas export performance, then has to recast from 2017 when India imposed a complete ban of the crop. In that year a measly 51,174 tons managed to get in to Indian ports. Therefore taking these two years in the weighing pan you will come in to conclusion that pigeon peas performance it getting back to its normal. Though quantitative restriction by India was in place last year, but they were relatively accommodative comparing to total ban imposed previously. Like green grams, there was no change in export destination as India kept on taking the first spot. However, there is an inspiring dalliance that is emerging between Tanzania exporters and some European countries like Belgium and Netherlands. Chickpeas Chickpeas is the only pulse whose export has catapulted. It is this big difference created by chickpea that has made last year’s exports looks bigger despite of a slump of all other type of pulses. The 2019 exports shows that a total of 87,178 tons were shipped to overseas, up and above the preceding year’s performance that stood at 44,895 tons – 113 per cent increment. As usual India kept on being the most sought after market, by absorbing the lion share of Tanzania export of chickpeas and the rest of pules in the entire year 2019. The surge in Tanzania export of chickpea might have come by surprise because the rest of the world experienced a decline. Maybe Tanzania’s specialization in producing Desi chickpea as opposed to Kabuli might be a major reason behind this because, Turkey and other countries reported an overproduction of Kabuli chickpeas in the same year 2019.