“KNOWLDEGE (read education) is power. Information is liberating. Education is the premise of progress, in every society, in every family,” once said the seventh Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan. His school of thought was that it is important because it gives a different perspective on life and establishes a personal opinion after one analyzing a situation. It helps a society to develop socially and economically while keeping pace with latest technologies used in different areas like health, economy, military and other business, and this is the exact realm Tanzania envisions. With that in mind, the country’s education system, whether we like it or not, must be addressed critically to accommodate latest developments, otherwise we shall lag behind. Although there have been a lot of improvements within the education sector, there are still loopholes which must be addressed by all institutions, education stakeholders and citizens without leaving the burden to the government. Though, the government should invest more in education, because by doing this, it improves the sector to groom many educated people, who will fight poverty. However, the major support should start from the grassroots with parents seeing the essence of educating their children and fighting all sorts of hindrances like early marriages among the girl-child and child labour. It will be a waste of time and resources for the government to invest money in educating a people, who are impregnating school girls, and employing children to sell their wares in streets. This is a collective responsibility that must start right from the family level up the hierarchy. Parents should remember that children are good at imitating what they do and for that matter, once a parent starts displaying high degree of irresponsibility, his/her kid will follow suit. Going by Winston Churchill school of thought, “the price of greatness is responsibility,” the benefits of responsible behavior will help your child throughout her life and from good grades to successful romantic relationships, responsibility can positively impact virtually in every area of your child’s life. If we must build a responsible community that creates an environment where education flourishes, it is our responsibility as parents to lead by example. On this note, parents must know that bad parenting would lead his son/daughter to suffer from low self-esteem, become aggressive, antisocial, and always show hostile behaviour. You can imagine the impact of these issues on your child as he/she grows older.