A FEW days ago, I had full enjoyment, watching, live, this young German lady, but whose roots are firmly from the land of Kilimanjaro, Tanzania, Malaika Mihambo, as she was smashing the women’s long jump record in Germany’s capital city, Berlin. The teenager whose father just like the Danish international, Yusuph, is a Tanzanian, is currently the centre of athletic focus in the world. During the international athletic meeting in Berlin, Malaika Mihambo, registered seven metres’ jump, was described by commentators as very generous with the board. Indeed, you can imagine a person jumping seven metres and jumping off about three to four centemetres from the mark she is supposed to ‘fly off’ from! What this means is that had she jumped, exactly, from where she was supposed to take off, she could have covered more than the seven metres she had registered. After watching the Tanzanian German, if there is anything like (Wamunza or Kironde should be best place to tell us), I asked myself, “what is awfully wrong with us?” Why are we not doing well internationally, when the children fathered by Tanzanians abroad, and they are not very many, seem to be doing extremely well outside Tanzania? We seem to be so much lazy that our sports leaders are even incapable of making follow ups on ‘Tanzanian blood’ who are making all kind of waves outside the country. For instance, this Yusuph guy, currently playing for the Danish national soccer team (1992 Euro national soccer champions), I’m told he had several times visited Tanzania (his father came from Tanga) and had tried to talk to our TFF, (but not the present leadership), with intent to play for his father’s country, but no one listened to him. And, now he is the first ‘Tanzanian’ to play in the Fifa World Cup final in Russia and his father’s country has never qualified for such tournament. Interestingly, things seem to work very well when we have foreign coaches managing our national soccer team. Yes, it is foreign coaches who always try to look for Tanzanian blood outside the country. The indigenous coaches? Well, they have no time. When the Nigerian tactician, Emmanuel Amunike was in Tanzania as Taifa Stars’ Head Coach, he managed to get nine foreign based Tanzanian players in his team. Why our local coaches are not doing that, it is anyone’s conjecture. But one thing is crystal clear. We have insurmountable problems in our heads. Now in case you did not know, in the forthcoming Olympic Games in Japan in summer this year, you would be able to watch this German with Tanzanian blood, Malaika Mihambo, doing her things in the Games where Tanzania is likely to be represented with less than three players. Going by the way she has been smashing long jump records, (she has already jumped the longest in the world this year), I would certainly not be surprised if the lady, whose ancestors are located somewhere between Tabora and Sukuma land, wins a gold medal for her second home, away from home, Germany. We are so much behind other countries in the region, in terms of international sports, that the other day Kenyans joked us when they said Mbwana Samatta was a Kenyan and challenged us to dispute that in English. And, talking about Samatta, nothing comforted me on Sunday night than seeing this miniature Tanzanian national flag beside Samatta’s mug shot. Again, that was the first time a Tanzanian flag had appeared on a Tanzanian soccer player in the English premier league. I hope the sighting of that miniature Tanzania flag is not going to be the last. Yes, we did more than such flag. Probably the next flag would be brought forth by this Tanzanian former Serengeti Boys striker, Kelvin John. Of course, why not. After all is presently reported to be in England where he is playing soccer and studying. And this is the message our budding soccer stars who wants to ply their wares abroad need to keep note of. Yes, you cannot make it in the professional soccer ranks abroad if your education is zero. You need to string a few words in a foreign language, Spanish, French, English or Deutsch or even Russian if you want to play football in Europe. The question our players need to ask themselves is; if foreign coaches are required to coach players in England, Germany, France, Italy or Spain in those countries’ languages, what should make our local players think that they can succeed abroad through the use of their swahilis? You should listen to Samatta stringing together his English and you will realize that the boy is too smart. Keep on roaring, old boy.