“WORKERS of the world, unite! You have nothing to lose but your chains!” That quote by the famous German intellectual, Karl Marx, is, as the saying goes, pregnant with wisdom. History is replete with examples drawn from  various parts of the world, of heartless employers exploiting workers mercilessly. The hapless  people are subjected to punishing routines whose features include long working hours in very hostile conditions, for meagre pay. Plus, they are denied basic entitlements like medical attention and financial assistance whenever they are confronted by critical social obligations. And worse, those so trapped are often denied forums through which to voice their grievances. Crafty employers are also fond of applying the divide-and-rule tactic, because by so doing, workers wouldn’t act as a strong cohesive force for pressing for better terms of service from their heartless employers. They would use their collective labour power  as a powerful weapon for  securing fair treatment and payment. It is a common trend practiced by employers so-inclined worldwide, to exploit workers, for profit maximisation ends. The clamour for fair play in the production sector is fairly widespread in various  parts of the world. Over the years,  successive  Tanzanian governments have been  striving to create a conducive working environment for  workers in public and private sectors alike. This stems from the fact that,  if they didn’t undertake close monitoring of the goings-on at workplaces, workers would be susceptible to exploitation and other misdeeds. The fifth phase government is particularly keen on ensuring that fair play applies at workplaces. It makes interventions whenever the need arises, to ensure that,  labour laws are enforced and  that those violating them are  duly sanctioned. That, significantly though, goes alongside emphasis being laid on  workers to meet their obligations fully. The front page of yesterday’s edition of the ‘Daily News’ featured  a photograph of placard-waving Automech  Limited workers in Dar es Salaam, seeking presidential intervention in addressing an alleged raw deal by the management, over wrongful employment  termination and denial of some dues. There may be other unpublicized cases elsewhere within and beyond Dar es Salaam. A sharp eye should be cast on them, for the sake of ensuring that labour relations are, at best, excellent, and, at worst, good, for workers constitute a crucial socio-economic force.                   