THE Irish Ambassador to Tanzania, Paul Sherlock, has expressed readiness to cooperate with the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance (CHRAGG) in programmes aimed at enhancing human rights awareness to ordinary citizens. The envoy revealed recently during discussions with a CHRAGG delegation led by its Chairperson, Judge Mathew Mwaimu (retired) who paid a courtesy call at the Irish Embassy in Dar es Salaam. The embassy’s readiness was in response to Justice Mwaimu’s request to the ambassador to see the possibilities of cooperating with the commission in educating the public about land rights. According to Justice Mwaimu, most areas in the country were facing land disputes such as Kilosa, and Kilombero, women being most affected when it comes to land ownership. “I think that will be the best idea, let’s see how best we can do within your mandate, we will critically discuss and see where we can cooperate”, Sherlock said. Speaking earlier, CHRAGG Commissioner, Nyanda Shuli said that currently the commission was receiving a number of complaints on terminal benefits, employment termination, and delayed justice and land disputes. He said the commission was working on strategies which will provide solutions to the problems. “We encourage people to resolve these disputes through dialogue, we, CHRAGG, believe on engaging parties in dialogue as the best way of resolving issues,” Shuli said. CHRAGG Acting Executive Secretary said CHRAGG has been working closely with various stakeholders within and outside the country, naming UNDP as one of the stakeholders who works closely with them. However, Muya explained that CHRAGG had entered a Memorandum of understanding with 21 local CSOs to ensure that human rights and principles of good governance are maintained and respected. CHRAGG, in partnership with Haki Maendeleo, recently conducted human rights and good governance training for 27 Lindi Municipal Councilors. The CHRAGG delegation visited the embassy for familiarisation and sought cooperation to make sure that human rights and good governance are maintained and respected within the country.