CHINESE couple yesterday pleaded guilty to corruptly giving 5,000 US dollars as a bribe to Commissioner General of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Dr Edwin Mhede to avoid tax liability of over 1.3bn/- for their company, which deals with marine plywood production. Zheng Rongnan (50), who is the Managing Director of Ronglan Int’l Industry and Trade Co. Limited and his wife, OuY a (47), both residing at Kinyombo C, Mafinga in Iringa, were arraigned at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam to face the criminal charge. After admitting the charge, Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi adjourned the case until today after allowing an application by the prosecution, who sought for postponement for them to get enough time to prepare memorandum of facts. The magistrate ordered the two Chinese nationals to remain in remand to await the outcome of their trial. Furthermore, the magistrate directed the prosecution to look for an interpreter, who could translate from English language to Chinese and vice-verse. According to the magistrate, it appeared Rongnan could not understand English language as opposed to his wife, who also stood as an interpreter in yesterday’s proceedings. He pointed out that the court could not rely on her to make such translation to enable the husband follow the proceedings. Prosecuting, an officer with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Mwakatobe Mshana told the court that the two accused persons committed the offence on February 24, 2020 at TRA Headquarters in Ilala District within the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that the two Chinese corruptly gave an advantage of the said 5,000 US dollars, which is equivalent to 11,545,000/- to the TRA’s Commissioner General as an inducement that he could assist on tax liability due by their company of 1,375,735,483/-, which was supposed to be paid to the Authority. Meanwhile, six people, including Y usuf Ali Y usuf, alias Shehe, alias Mpemba, have requested the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to act on their request to enter into a plea bargaining agreement in order to end the 392m/- economic sabotage trial they are facing. They told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba when the case came for hearing that they paid the agreed amount since last year, but the DPP had not given any directives on how to go about the matter further. In response to the accused persons’ concern, the magistrate directed State Attorney Silivia Mitanto, for the prosecution, to follow up the matter, but he was more critical of the failure by the prosecution to call witnesses for 12 consecutive court sessions. He adjourned the case to March 9, 2020, for continuation of hearing. Other accused persons are Charles Mahungo Mrutu, alias Mangi Mapikipiki, alias Mangi, Benedict Vintus Kungwa, Jumanne Ramadhani Chima, alias J izzo, alias J K, Ahmed Ambari Nyagongo and Pius Vicent Kulagwa. They are alleged to have committed the offences between 2014 and 2016 in different regions of Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Iringa, Tanga and Mtwara Regions. Between January 2014 and October 2016, the accused persons allegedly organised and furthered the objectives of criminal racket. The accused are alleged to have acquired, possessed and sold 50 pieces of elephant tusks, which are government trophies valued at 180,000 US dollars (about 392,817,600/-), the property of the United Republic of Tanzania. It is alleged that on October 26, this year, at Mbagala Zakhem area in Temeke District, all accused persons were found in possession of ten pieces of elephant tusks weighing 13.85kg valued at 30,000 US dollars (65,469,600/-), the property of the government without a permit. The prosecution alleges that on October 27, this year, at Tabata Kisukulu area in Ilala District in the city, the accused persons were found with four pieces of elephant tusks weighing 11.1kg valued at 15,000 US dollars (32,734,800/-), without a permit from the Director of Wildlife. It is further alleged that on October 29, this year, at Tabata Kisukulu area in Ilala District, the accused persons were found with 36 pieces of elephant tusks weighing 58.55kg valued at 135,000 US dollar (294,613,200/-), the property of the government without any permit from relevant authorities.