OXYGEN depletion in water due to sustained increase in water temperature caused by climate change poses a threat to the survival of aquatic species, notes the Director General of Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute (TAFIRI) Dr Ismael Kimirei. Aquatic hypoxia is the term used to describe the phenomenon that occurs in aquatic environments as dissolved oxygen becomes reduced in concentration to a point where it becomes detrimental to aquatic organisms living in the system. “Fish need oxygen to survive and if the water is very hot they also feel the heat and need to use more energy to maintain their body temperature rather than growing. As they do so even their production becomes low,” he said. He gave the revelation during a debate on the preservation of water resources and biodiversity of Lake Victoria in an event dubbed ‘the night of ideas’ organized by the French embassy together with Alliance Francaise. He commented: “The major challenge witnessed currently is the increase of water that does not have oxygen, causing the reduction of fish habitats as most part of the water becomes dead, which even causes fish kills.” Stressing that as humans through their activities, caused the rise in carbon dioxide emissions which are not absorbed well by plants together with water pollution and sedimentation then it’s the humans who can be the solution. “Let us stop improper agricultural activities and felling trees as it will reduce sedimentation; as well as pouring treated water will help reduce the quantity of nutrients entering our water bodies which in turn will help eradicate the growth of water hyacinth,” he stated. All these are solutions that will help retain oxygen in the water bodies, and the production of fish will increase; creating a sustainable earth for the future. Dr Kimirei mentioned other human activities that cause threats to the livelihood of water bodies in the country, such as Lake Victoria, as including illegal fishing, environmental pollution and unsustainable land use.