THE Fifth Phase Government has recorded a significant achievement in decongesting the country’s prisons over the past four years, as the measures it instituted has facilitated the release of more than 30,000 prisoners. Speaking in Dar es Salaam during Law Day commemorations, which marked the beginning of the New Year for the legal fraternity in the country, President John Magufuli said when he assumed office, the situation in the country’s prisons was appalling. This prompted his government to adopt various measures towards reducing overcrowding. The president said among the actions included speeding up court proceedings to ensure timely dispensation of justice and granting of presidential amnesty to some inmates who were convicted for various offences. He said that over the past four years, a total of 38,801 pris oners benefited from the presidential pardon while 335 walked free through the newly introduced plea bargaining system. Dr Magufuli said that during the celebrations to mark the country’s 58th independence anniversary, he pardoned 5,533 prisoners, including some who were serving death sentences. The number of prisoners who benefited from the amnesty was the highest since he assumed office four years previously. In 2018, a total of 4,477 prisoners were granted amnesty. In 2017, the President’s clemency saw 1,828 immediately released while 6,329 had their sentences reduced. Dr Magufuli further noted that talks were underway to repatriate foreign prisoners, including 1,415 Ethiopians who are serving their jail terms in Tanzania’s prisons due to immigration-related issues. “Talks are underway to send back home Ethiopian prisoners ... I expect to sign the certificates without delays to allow these prisoners to return to their home... this move will also help to decongest our prisons,” he said. Reports indicate that every year, hundreds of Ethiopians are detained in Tanzania while trying to use the country as a transit point for their final destination, South Africa. The president, however, expressed disappointment over delays in investigating various cases, calling on the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau, as well as other organs dealing with justice dispensation to expedite investigations for timely delivery of justice. “Currently, the country’s prisons host 13,455 prisoners and 17,632 remandees; this is an indication that you have not done well in this area...investigations of various cases have been taking too long even if there was sufficient evidence for the cases to be concluded,” he said. The president said that delays in investigations had been denying people’s rights because some of the remandees’ cases were fabricated. Meanwhile, Dr Magufuli said that his government had been deploying various measures to fight corruption not only in the judiciary and other legal organs but also in all sectors, through the National AntiCorruption Strategy. According to the Head of State, in 2017/2018 a total of 27 civil servants were prosecuted for various disciplinary offences while in 2018/19, thirteen of them faced similar charges. He further explained that since 2015, disciplinary actions were taken against 363 civil servants, including issuing warnings, while others were dismissed.