THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), said upgrade work at the Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga, Rukwa ahead of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), final on Sunday are 89 per cent complete. The venue will host a high profile ASFC finale pitting Simba SC against Namungo FC as the former wants to accomplish their mission to bag two titles this season, while the latter eyes to bag their first major silverware in history. However, regardless of the outcome, Namungo will fly high the national colours in CAF Confederations Cup next season since their opponents (Simba), already booked a ticket to play in CAF Champions League (CAF CL), after clinching the Mainland Premier League title. Updating the public on the progress of the preparations unfolding at the venue was the federation’s Competitions Director Salum Madadi, who revealed that so far, 89 per cent of the job is done. “I can see the renovation work reaching 89 per cent complete because we have not yet installed goal posts and technical bench dug out but much of the work is almost over,” Madadi said. He added that tomorrow, experts who are on the frontline doing renovation will today do final trimming of the grass on the pitch before marking it. Moreover, Madadi disclosed that TFF delegation is expected to arrive in Sumbawanga on Friday ready to witness the grand finale. Quizzed when the match officials will be unveiled to the public, Madadi said they will parade them on the last day before the encounter. “Our expectation is that we will have another extraordinary final on the day as such, people should flock the venue to watch the match,” he said. Meanwhile, Namungo have insisted that their mission is to win the cup saying they do not want to compete in international matches from the shoulders of another team. “We want to show our potential by winning the ASFC title that is why the team has arrived early in Sumbawanga to have ample time of preparations,” said the club’s Chairman Hassan Zadadu. He added: “Focus among players and the coach are on this game that is why, I am confident about the tangible results on the day.”