THE Tanzanian government has urged investors to take advantage of the conducive environment for investments created by the current administration to expand their businesses and create ideal employment opportunities for youth and women. The Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Investment), Ms Angella Kairuki, made the call this week during her familiarisation tour of a vegetable and fruits processor, Arusha based Darsh Industries Ltd (DIL). “Tanzania’s fifth phase government is determined to create an enabling environment for investors to expand their businesses and employ more local people so that we reduce poverty among our people,” Ms Kairuki explained. The minister commended DIL for its efforts to penetrate into the regional markets and beyond, promoting Tanzania as a reliable country, with quality tomato and fruits products. “I am impressed by your quality products and more seriously with your initiative to penetrate international markets. This implies that Tanzania is capable of feeding the world with value additional fruits and vegetables, instead of raw materials as was the case in the past,” Ms Kairuki remarked. The DIL Managing Director, Bhadres Pandit, told the minister that in their two production plants (Arusha and Iringa regions) they had employed 400 workers, 70 per cent of whom were women and the rest were men. He added that it had indirectly employed 3,000 people who include farmers, transporters, porters, suppliers and dealers. The director explained that the 13 billion shillings investment in their Iringa factory, the largest in East and Central Africa, had a capacity for processing 200 metric tonnes of raw tomatoes per day, offering a ready market for tomato growers in Iringa and Morogoro regions. “It is also credited to have pioneered the introduction of tomato paste to the Tanzanian market and it is now the country’s biggest tomato processor. We have produced products like tomato sauce, ketchup, paste, chill sauces, fruit jams, peanut butter, honey, food spices such as pickles, vinegars, custard powder, mayonnaise and corn flour,” Mr Pandit said, adding: “Our capacity is to produce 15,000 metric tonnes of the cited vegetables and fruits products annually. We have created a sustainable market for small-scale farmers in northern and southern highlands.” He asked the government to waive a 25 per cent import duty on printed tin cans, glass bottles and caps, drums and aseptic bags to enable local products to be competitive in world markets. Mr Pandit further requested the government to waive the ten per cent import duty on food additives and stabilisers. “We are humbly requesting our government to waive customs import duties on crucial imported raw and packaging materials not readily available in the country. The move will enable local products to be competitive in the East African region and beyond to sustain amid stiff competition,” he said.