YOUNG African head coach Luc Eymael has said he expects a tough match today when his team faces Biashara United at Karume stadium in Mara. Speaking during his team’s arrival at Mwanza Airport on Friday evening, Eymael said he expects the match to be very tough and highly competitive due to his opponents’ good home record. "Very tough game, we are playing against a team with a good record at home. It will be a tough game in the pitch which is not good,’’ he said. He further disclosed that his team will miss the services of two key players; Papy Tshishimbi and Bernard Morrison. "Tshishimbi is not part of our travel, Morrison is not with us, he just came to the training on Thursday but he hasn’t travelled with us,’’ Luc said. Commenting about the ongoing Premier League, the coach said the league is good and it has a lot of talents but the biggest problem is poor pitches. Eymael said after their match against Biashara United they have to play Kagera Sugar which he labelled one of the best teams. He said his prime target now is beat Simba SC in the Azam Sports Federation Cup semifinal match. "We target to go through to the final because we are playing against Simba SC coached by my fellow Belgian. Simba are the champions now and they have been playing as a consistent team. I expect to see a good derby and I focus to win it, ’’ he said. Meanwhile, Benjamin Ben reports that Dar es Salaam will endure a quiet weekend as two giants; Simba SC and Young Africans both play in away venues today. Champions Simba will be battling up with struggling Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara while Yanga are at Karume Stadium in Mara facing Biashara United. A win by Simba will drive them to 83 points at the summit of the table and will help them to be in good title celebration mood prior to its presentation ceremony on Wednesday at Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi. However, all is not well for Ndanda who also need to stamp a victory to lift themselves up from the relegation zone as they occupy 17th slot on the table with 35 points. On the other hand, Yanga will be eyeing to bag in maximum three points from Biashara United who seem to be safe on the table with 44 points and occupies 9th place. It is not going to be an easy ride though for the visitors bearing in mind that the hosts have managed to get most of their points this season from their turf hence, they want to continue that spirit. Already, Yanga Head Coach Luc Eymael raised eyebrows about the nature of the Karume Stadium pitch saying it is not friendly for them to play good football saying it will not be surprising to see the hosts enjoying the game. But, leaving the status of the pitch aside, having known the champions, the interesting part of the league is the fight for the second place since only one point separates the second placed Yanga who have 60 points whereas Azam have 59 points on third slot. Azam are also in action this afternoon hosting Singida United who seemingly look to be the first team to be relegated this season in a match to be played at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. The Ice cream makers will end the season empty handed without any trophy after being booted out 2-0 in the semifinals Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) by Simba recently. Here, it means the outcome of both Yanga and Azam will attract attention from many people as the season reaches to the breaking point. Singida United have had a bad season no doubt about that as they have just won three matches, drawn six and losing 23 encounters in the process to get 15 points. During the Covid-19 pandemic league suspension, Singida United Director Festo Sanga vehemently said there was no way his team was descending into the First Division League (FDL) as he used to say that they will win all their remaining matches of the season. This has however turned out to be vice versa as they have not won any game since the resumption of the league.