TANGA based Sahare All Stars said their mission is to lift the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) title to earn the prestige of representing the country in CAF Confederations Cup. Sahare who parade in the First Division League (FDL) are the only side from FDL to reach in the semis of the competition courtesy of a 4-3 post match penalty victory against Ndanda FC at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Tuesday. They will welcome Namungo FC at the same venue in the last four pack of the contest whose winner will jump into the final. The two teams locked horns during the normal unfold of the game after posting a 1-1 draw thereby forcing the match to be decided on spot kicks which in the end favored the hosts. But, speaking after the game, Sahare All Stars coach Kessy Abdallah mentioned four things which have been contributing to their incredible performance in ASFC as God, unity in the team, good leadership and support from their fans. "As of now, our focus is to reach into the finals and claim the title even though we have a big task to overcome in the semifinals against Namungo. "I can say presently, Namungo is one of the top four best teams in the country but it should be remembered that they are the ones who defeated us last season in the same competition hence time for them to feel the sour of losing," he said. He added that concerning whether they will be able to make international trips if they win the ASFC title will be known at the end of the journey. On his part, Ndanda FC coach Abdul Mingange said his players underrated Sahare All Stars that is why they lost the game. "I told them that the game will be difficult as such we had to ensure to finish it early without going into penalties but they did not listen hence the defeat," Mingange said. Also, Ndanda's General Secretary, Selemani Kachele said after the downfall, they have now switched their focus to the top flight league as they expect to host champions Simba SC on Sunday. "We are aware that despite Simba being declared champions, they will not approach the game for granted as they want to continue winning that is why we need to be fully prepared to get maximum points from them," he said.