THE government, through the Office of Solicitor General, has saved about 11.4 tri/-, after winning several cases and litigations in various courts both locally and abroad. This was said by the Deputy Solicitor General, Mr Gabriel Malata, when receiving five laptop computers worth 5m/-, donated by the National Housing Corporation (NHC) in his office Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. According to Mr Malata, the 11.4tri/-was a cumula tive amount rescued since the establishment of the Office of the Solicitor General in 2018, in particular, during the financial year 2019/2020. It followed the good performance by state lawyers, which led to overwhelmingly winning the cases filed against the government. He added that the saved funds would help in the development of various ongoing development projects such as Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), procurement of aircrafts and large passenger and cargo ships in ensuring Tanzania attains the middle economy status by 2025. Mr Malata pointed out that the computers donation was timely because it will help the staff of the office to perform their duties more efficiently and, thus, speed up the handling of the case process and that help to increase their efficiency. In addition, the Deputy Solicitor General said that the computers would be of great help to his office considering the fact that this year there would be general elections, thus they would enable staff and especially lawyers to carry out the responsibilities of managing cases properly and effectively. “We have elections this year and after the election process a number of cases, that is election petitions, are normally filed to oppose the results,” Mr Malata said in a statement issued by the Office of the Solicitor General. On his part, Social Services Manager with the NHC, Mr Muungano Saguya, said that they have decided to provide such assistance to help the staff of the Solicitor General’s Office to continue carrying out their duties more effectively. Such initiatives, according to the statement, would also lead the state lawyers to further saving money that would otherwise be lost due to shortage of office equipment. The Office of the Solicitor General was established February 12, 2018 through Government Notice No. 50 with the aim of coordinating, managing and conducting all litigations relating to Constitution, Elections and human rights filed against the government of the United Republic of Tanzania.