LEADING by example. That expression fits neatly into the manner in which the ruling party, Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) is conducting its affairs. In their wisdom, dating back to the era when it was under the superintendence of founder President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere as its national chairman, up to now, those at the helm are conscious that, they have a responsibility of being role models. Over the years, CCM, plus the preceding Tanu and Afro Shirazi Party (ASP) parties from which it sprang via their fusion, the leaders have strived to lead by example. It is pertinent, however, to point out that the leaders, at various levels, were, and are fallible human beings, who are not absolutely perfect, and thus amenable to make mistakes. Fortunately, however, the leaders, as well as the broad membership, have, with the passage of time, been striving to correct mistakes or blunders, and thereby perfecting their operations. CCM has thus profited from the experience it has picked. Included in that experience are various shortcomings, among which is the greed for power manifested by some members. The greed has particularly been manifested during election seasons on two broad fronts - the in-house one and the broader one whereby the party is vying for positions ranging from the grassroots to the national level. The greed stemmed (and still does) from selfishness, whereby some individuals perceive themselves as being the most suitable and thus have the right to be picked initially as candidates, and subsequently declared as winners - come rain; come sun! That situation has to some extent turned election contests into fierce political battles. This shouldn’t be the case, but rather, sober competitions under which contestants conduct clean campaigns and voters determine who they perceive as the most suitable. That is the backdrop against which should be viewed sentiments expressed in Dodoma on Monday by CCM’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Mr Humphrey Polepole. Speaking at a media briefing session, he cautioned aspirants for various positions engaging in unethical deeds, saying they would be duly sanctioned. Mr Polepole’s warning is apt, for, elections are primarily about voters picking men and women who they perceive would best serve their interests. These have to be patriots at heart and not crooks seeking elective posts as short-cuts for fame or financial and associated gains!