IT is going to be a busy weekend in Dar es Salaam where three venues will host the biggest cricket marathon since sports activities resumed since early June. At Annadil Burhan oval, two finals of Paul Manyanda Memorial Cricket will light up Pro-10 showdown. Other venues are Dar Gymkhana and Kinondoni Leaders Club. The hosts Annadil Burhani will face Union Sports Club in the Division B final before Dar Black Panthers locking horns with Patel Brotherhood in the Division C final at the same venue tomorrow. As for Division B, the top finalists Annadil Burhani and Union have been traditional rivals for many decades as among the earliest cricket clubs in the country. It will be a tough encounter for Annadil Burhani who are the division’s defending champions against hard-fighting Union Sports. More so, Union has had a streak of final losses in the two tournaments, guessing that, they would not let themselves miss this time. “It is anticipated to be the most exciting game of this week and we expect many legends from these two clubs to be in attendance as it is a mouthwatering clash,” said the Tanzania Communication Association (TCA) Communication Officer, Salim Atif. "In Division C, Dar Black Panther have been a surprise package. It's their first tournament and they have managed to reach finals.” The two finalists in Division B (Annadil and Union) together with Dar es Salaam Cricket Club (DCC) have been promoted to A1-30 Overs tournament while in Division C; Patel Brotherhood have been promoted to Division B. “Congratulations to Dar Black panther to be in the finals and we hope to have a great final against Patel Brotherhood who has been promoted to Division B in the Kazim Nasser Series for their consistent performances since last year,” Atif said. “Usually it is a consistency in the performance and players profile. Both clubs (Annadil and Union) have been doing well since last year.” “And DCC have shown growth in their performances so they have been promoted to show their worth in A1.” Other games will involve Division A matches in which Aga Khan Sports Club (AKSC A) will play against Caravans A at Gymkhana ground. Kinondoni Leaders ground will host two games that are; General Petroleum (GP) against Aces B for Division A 1 Y; while Malabar Cricket Club will play Estim Cricket club for Division B.