 YOUNG Africans have sacked embattled Head Coach Luc Eymael allegedly for racist comment, while the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) petitioned his case to FIFA. TFF will also take disciplinary measures against the sacked coach, while it finalises processes to hand his case to the world football governing body (FIFA) Eymael, who enabled Yanga to finish second overall in the just climaxed Premier League, was fired by his club for the racist remarks and disrespect to Tanzanians and the football governing body. TFF said in its statement signed by its Communication officer Clifford Ndimbo that racism has no place in Tanzania as it is everywhere in the world and added it will bring the issue to FIFA for appropriate measures. TFF said it is forced to report the offence to FIFA as a move to warn him not repeat the offence since as a coach he can get a coaching job anywhere else around the globe. In January this year, TFF warned Eymael over his racist claims. Eymael claimed referee Hans Mabena had refused to shake his hand during their match against Azam FC and in his post-match interview, and the coach equated the action to racism. His club, Yanga was directed to make him understand the importance of discipline all through, according to a statement on TFF Facebook page. Early yesterday Yanga terminated the contract with Eymael following controversial remarks he made via an audio clip which circulated on social media platforms. According to the official statement signed by the club’s acting General Secretary, Simon Patrick, the termination of the contract was effective from yesterday July 27th. “The management of Yanga is saddened with inhuman and racist comments made by coach Eymael and disseminated via social media platforms and other media outlets. “As a result of such inhuman and un-sportsmanship remarks, the management has decided to terminate his contract effective from today (yesterday), July 27th, 2020 and he should leave the country as fast as possible,” reads part of the statement. Further, the statement apologised to sports leaders in the country, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), members and fans of Yanga for the remarks made by Eymael. It continued: “Yanga respect and values fundamentals of discipline, humanity and is totally against any forms of racism.” In the clip, Eymael was heard among other things criticising Yanga supporters that they know nothing about football despite attending in full most of the matches played by the team. “The only thing Yanga fans know is to shout like monkeys or dogs when barking...they do not know anything about football which is always bad when playing in away venues,” he said. He went on: “Please, let release me, let release me. It is better for you to stay with your people, do your things and you will never be able to win the league because you are not the nice team. “You do not have any word for the federation (Tanzania Football Federation) which is for Simba and other clubs not for us. You have to release me. I do not want to stay here.” However, Eymael was in extraordinary joyous mood after navigating his side to the second place finish last season courtesy of a 1-0 triumph over Lipuli FC on Sunday. DR Congo striker David Molinga fired the only goal of the match in the first half to claim the essential victory which officially qualified them to end as runners up to champions Simba SC. But, immediately after the final whistle at Samora Stadium in Iringa, jubilant Eymael was seen running here and there to the section which accommodated Yanga fans, jumping with them with the head up in praise of God.