YOUNG Africans Head Coach Luc Eymael has classified Dar es Salaam derby governed by traditional rivals Simba and Young Africans as the third tense classic derby on the continent. The Dar es Salaam giants meet on Sunday, July 12th in the semifinal match of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. It will be the third time for them to meet this season and in the past two meetings, Yanga forced a 2-2 draw in the first round of the Premier League before registering 1-0 win in their second round at the same venue. Simba, who lost their last encounter’s match, are desperately focused to revenge for the loss. To book last four slots, Yanga smashed Kagera Sugar 2-1 while Simba outclassed Azam FC 2-0 hence, the big question is who will proceed into the finals to face either Namungo FC or Sahare All Stars, who, play in another semifinals of the contest. However, prior to the big match, Yanga have two matches to take care of as they face Biashara United at Karume Stadium in Mara before confronting Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium on Thursday next week and thereafter, they will return back to the base to face Simba. Speaking ahead of the derby duel, Eymael said he believes that Simba vs Yanga is the third biggest match in Africa in terms of its importance and fans. "We currently have hot derbies in Morocco, South Africa and Tanzania. Previously, we used to have other hot derby matches in Egypt and Tunisia but due to political reasons, the derby in Egypt is played behind closed doors while in Tunisia, fans are limited," he said. He also pointed out that the good news is that Bernard Morrison will be present on the day against Simba saying he talked with the player and has shown interest to face Simba. Recently, Eymael admitted that he removed Morrison from the camp before facing Kagera Sugar on Tuesday due to misbehaviour shown by the player. Concerning tomorrow's game, Eymael raised eyebrows about the nature of the pitch saying it is not friendly to his team since they are capable to play good football on the good pitch. "Even in our next match against Kagera Sugar, we will play on the artificial pitch of which we are not used to play at but our opponents (Kagera Sugar) are used to it," he said. Meanwhile, Yanga has become the first club in the country to take part in the exhibition of its various products at the ongoing Sabasaba Trade Fair in Dar es Salaam. According to the club's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli, registration of new members of the club is among the activities being done at their facility inside the Trade Fair grounds. Africa’s top ranked derbies 1. Casablanca Derby: Waydad vs Raja Casablanca 2. Cairo Derby: Al Ahly vs Zamalek 3. Soweto Derby: Kaizer Chiefs vs Orlando Pirates 4. Algers Derby: USM Algers vs MC Alger 5: Tunis Derby: Esperance vs Club Africain 6. Omdurman Derby: Al-Hilal vs El Merreikh 7. Nairobi Derby (Mashemeji) AFC Leopards vs Gor Mahia 8. Lubumbashi Derby: TP Mazembe vs St Lupopo