THE decision by the government of Tanzania to invest in a Bus Rapid Transit system (BRT) has borne fruits and improves the quality of public transportation in areas it plys. BRT extended the network throughout the city centre and has reduced travel time by about 40 minutes averagely in all routes they serve. In the course, commuters are also more satisfied with public transport, besides security being enhanced and travel time minimized. For instance, a small businessman, Rashid Abdallah, who sells backpacks popularly known as rucksacks that he buys from Kariakoo, said the buses ease his movements with the wares for sale. “My business requires me to always move from one area to another, and since BRT commenced operations from Morocco to Kimara, it only takes 45 minutes in comparison to public transport (Daladala) that takes almost 3 to 4 hours to reach my destination, depending on the time of the day,” he said. For several years, congested roadways and heavy traffic have made it difficult for businesses to thrive in the city and that made the government and World Bank work together to create a new Rapid Bus Transit system to decongest the roads. With completed 29 BRT Stations in Dar es Salaam, about 300,000 people are transported in the system every day. According to the World Bank reports, residents of Dar es Salaam not only waste a significant amount of manpower time on roads, but spend approximately 34 per cent of their average monthly income on transport; this limits their resources and productive time available for other operating businesses. A resident of Mbezi, Monica Chande who works at the city centre said BRT has transformed her life; however, she said the government should consider improving the services offered for the project to be of greater benefit to the majority of the citizens. “I commend the government for coming up with this project, it is such a relief for me, I always come with my private car and I leave it at Kimara, meaning I spend only 45 minutes to the city centre by using BRT rather than using my car,” said Ms Chande. Ms Chande further said this mode of transport is the way to go even for other growing cities in the country, urging the government to work on the issues, which enhance the system under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP). Another beneficiary, Anna Semkiwa, said what she is pleasing about the BRT is that as modern busses, they operate on major highways in their special lanes and saves time in commuting. Another Kimara resident, Laurent Maziku who also enjoys Bus rapid transit (BRT) from Ubungo Terminal said: “When I look at how these services have been reaching ordinary citizens, it is so great. Previously, residents of Kimara and Mbezi were delaying to reach city centre because of traffic jam, but today there are no delays.” Reached for a comment, Dar es Salaam Rapid Transit (DART) Chief Executive Officer, Engineer Ronald Lwakatare said everyday between 115 to 126 buses are on the roads with the same service. This interim phase has a total of 140 buses against the requirement of 305 buses for a full service. DART currently operates on BRT routes from Mbezi and Kimara to Kivukoni and Gerezani, and they also have a branch linking the terminal in Morocco and the Kimara- Kivukoni-Gerezani route. Construction of the first phase of the BRT system was completed in December 2015 covering 21 kilometres in the special lanes. Hamisi Mrisho a resident of Magohe, Dar es Salaam, who uses train services at TAZARA in his daily activities, expressed his happiness for enjoying the transport service, adding: “Train service has been so important in my daily activities. I can travel from one place to another in a short period of time without any jam or challenge, in a short period of time at a low cost. “When I have luggage I have nothing to worry, because I have a place to keep them and I will not be charged by train conductor…i f it were a bus, I would definitely be charged more than my expectations.” Highnes Kabuka, a resident of Temeke, Dar es Salaam said: “I have been using the train service more often, mostly when I travel many places. Train is more cheap and more relaxing to use, besides ensuring safe arrival.” Z awadi Luka, a resident of the city at Ubungo said: “I surely agree with President John Magufuli, because he has done a lot and makes Tanzanians’ lives easy and would wish he goes for another term. He has made Tanzania surely to be the most beautiful country out of many especially in improving infrastructures in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma and many others.”