The Touchline sports column today would be incomplete without paying glowing tribute to the third phase President, Mzee Benjamin William Mkapa, who passed on yesterday after a short illness. Retired President Mkapa would be fondly remembered by sports fans in the country for initiating the building of the Olympic size, sprawling 60,000 seating capacity National Stadium in Dar es Salaam which is currently one of the best ten such stadia in the continent. Mkapa admits in his own Memoir, ‘MY LIFE, MY PURPOSE a Tanzanian President remembers’ published last year, that he was not very much in love of sports. But when he thought of what kind of legacy he could leave for people he had led for ten years, and in particular, the ‘opium’ of the man in the street, sports; he thought of building of the stadium. Mkapa had thought of the invaluable prize in his second, and last five year term. Sports-wise, locally and internationally, the end of the construction of the imposing, Chinese infrastructure has provided Tanzania and its people untold respect. After the construction of the stadium, Tanzania only needs three other such stadia to stage Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) soccer finals. And if they add another nine other such stadia in the country to bring the total number of ten, then Tanzania can join the bandwagon of those seeking to stage the Fifa World Cup finals. In short, by building the National Stadium, Mkapa initiated, for succeeding presidents in the country, the turning around of the country into an international sports player. Outside sports, Mkapa would be remembered for introducing institutions which are extremely crucial for running any country under the sun. This is the man who introduced the Tanzania Revenue Authority, TRA, as we know it today, an institution which has scientifically transformed the collection of taxes in the country. Whatever problems we have had since then in relation to taxes has always been due to the human failure to make good use of his or her own brain, to combine the system that is already in place and his or her own judgment. Before his arrival on the scene late in 1995, collection of taxes in the country was not only haphazard, but also lacked proper methods for collection of taxes. In fact, it was not surprising that when Mkapa took over, Tanzania was collecting a paltry 25bn/= taxes per month. This was the time when the joint founding father of this nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere (with President Sheikh Abeid Karume), had repeatedly called on his successor, President Ali Hassan Mwinyi to collect taxes. Mwalimu likened any country that failed to collect taxes to a corrupt country. It would be recalled that because of our failure to collect taxes, a number of development partners withheld their assistance. Mkapa took over the country that had lacked systems of governance as represented by institutions, a country that was also heavily saddled with debts from western countries and international financial institutions like the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, IMF. It would be called how the opposition shouted down President Mkapa when he started paying debts that the country had owned western countries and international financial institutions. The local media was daily awash with criticisms from different people and opposition parties over Mkapa government’s decision to pay taxes. But within two years of his tenure, international financial institutions cut down, quite considerably, Tanzania’s debts and provided numerous soft loans to enable the country to deal with its teething problems. By the end of his first five year term, President Mkapa had not only taken out the country from economic doldrums, but it was now being touted as one of the best run (in terms of governance) in the continent. Lest Tanzanians forget, it was during President Mkapa’s ten year tenure that the country embarked on construction of its road network through its own internal financial resources. In terms of collection of taxes, the country had jumped from collection of 25bn/= taxes per month to over 200bn/= per month. Mkapa’s government was able to collect over five times of taxes because, first it had established a scientific and organized system of collecting taxes through TRA. Uganda’s President, Yoweri Kaguta Museveni was not only quick to see the tremendous achievement that his counterpart had made in the realm of tax collection, but he sought assistance from Dar es Salaam on how to streamline his country’s tax collection. Of course, as they say, the rest is history. Uganda has the same tax collection system that Tanzania has. But Uganda would not have had URA had it not been for President Mkapa’s innovations. In the realm of media, would be remembered for building on, on what his predecessor, President Mwinyi had done. He allowed free media which had been introduced by President Mwinyi. He privately complained the way the media, especially the print media cartooned him. Interestingly, he did allow the closure of any such newspapers. Mkapa challenged whoever wanted to be assisted in any economic endeavor, to show his or her efforts first and seek government assistance later. Although many criticized him for selling the National Bank of Commerce to South Africans, but he also created the people’s bank out of the NBC to form what has come to be known as NMB which is one of the most profitable banks in the continent. Of course, he made a lot of mistakes in his endeavor to take the nation from one level to another, mistakes included, among others, the poor handling of mining contracts. But he was after all, a human being. But the good thing about him, he also had time to reflect through his leadership and nothing depicts what he himself felt had been a problem on his part more than his own MEMOIRS. Through his MEMOIRS, Mkapa has also explained how he was taken for a ride by some of the very politicians still around with us who have sometimes acted Holier Than Thou. But when all is said and done, by the time President Mkapa was leaving the scene, he did not only leave behind good foreign reserve in the Bank of Tanzania, BoT, which the country could fall back on in case of any unforeseen economic problems. But he also left behind a robust economy which enabled him his successor, President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete to make a smooth take off unlike what he had himself faced when he took over the leadership. Simply put, retired President Benjamin William Mkapa as he was known as he lived on, has left Tanzanians many lessons they can take on board, of course if they want, and if they really want to pay him a befitting tribute.