THE government has stressed the need for aviation stakeholders to continue adhering to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), as it keep pace with increasing visitors and airlines resuming operations to Tanzania. The move is expected to build trust and confidence to the visitors after the country reopened its airspace following decline in Covid-19 pandemic cases. On May 19, this year, the government announced a lift of the ban on international flights after taking into measures and considerations that the Covid-19 pandemic in the country was declining. Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that, currently there are three airlines coming to Tanzania, naming them as Qatar, Ethiopian and KLM Royal Dutch passenger flights, which resumed operations on July 1 this year. "At the beginning  Qatar Airways  was flying to Dar  es Salaam  three  times a week, but now it has  resumed weekly flights  and  it flies  to  Zanzibar  four  times  a week,"  he added. The Minister further said that more airlines including Swiss Air and Emirates have also pledged to resume operations any time and this will increase the flow of visitors. That was when Dr Kigwangalla was speaking at the opening of  Covid-19  Preparedness  and  Response to aviation  stakeholders meeting held at  Julius Nyerere International Airpot (JNIA)  and funded by the  Federal Republic  of Germany. He said the government came up with the guidelines to protect both the public and visitors from the Covid-19 pandemic as it reopened its airspace. "I call upon  aviation stakeholders  especially staff working at  the major  airports to observe the SOP...you should not relax,  because  some of the visitors are coming  with fear and stress, thus you should build their  trust and confidence by showing them  how the country is serious  in  observing  the required international standards," Dr Kigwangalla said. The Minister further said that adhering to the SOP was not only important for workers, but also in upholding the country's image, because if they don't' take precautionary measures they may chase away tourists. On her part, Germany Ambassador to Tanzania Ms Regine Hess noted that her government is supporting training of airport staff to understand Covid-19 and precautionary measures to keep staff, travelers and airport safe. The training is about hygiene, disinfections, dresses, people working at the immigration, handling   luggages...the idea behind is that Covid-19 is still around, but it is controlled so people should feel free to travel now, but they want to be very sure that wherever they travel to they are safe from the disease," she said. Ms Hess added  that: “People who work in the sector also want to be sure that  they are safe from people coming into the country, so that is why we are doing this to help people feel good about coming to Tanzania." She said the training is part of Germany support programme in all East Africa member States. "We are doing this in all international airports, the first one in Tanzania was in Zanzibar and next week we are going to do it at Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA). Commenting, Civil  Aviation Safety and  Security Oversight  Agency (CASSOA)  Executive Director, Mr Emil  Arao  said  the training for Covid-19 preparedness was  very important because EAC regional bloc  in the  world to implement  such this kind of unique  training. "Instead of focusing on the traditional way of looking at health matters, we worked with EAC Council of Ministers   and came up with this unique training. We are now training different stakeholders in the aviation industry from luggage handling, immigration, pilots, cabin crew and other stakeholders in the industry,” he said.