WITH twelve teams deeply engaged in a fierce battle to shrug off relegation, we would like to warn the teams not to succumb to match-fixing which at the end might ruin the beauty of the entire league. From what we have witnessed in the 36th and 37th rounds of the unfolding league, we sense the 38th to be much more complicated as it will decide who deserves to join Singida United from the twelve teams. There is pressure and zeal for the good results as this time four teams will be relegated while two others at the 15th and 16th position will be tasked to play at a play-off stage. We are forced to insist on fairness because all of the twelve teams will be hungry for victories that will make safe from relegation while those at the safe zone likely to take the match lightly as they gain nothing from victories at the time when Simba have already grabbed the title. From Wednesday’s fixture, it is now apparent that the teams to join Singida United at the First Division will be known in the last round of the league. Going into the 38th round of the league, teams above Tanzania Prisons who are placed above 9th position are safe from relegation, this however doesn’t make them ignore the matches, they must work hard to restore their pride and that of the entire league. We are forced to speak against creating questionable results since that can destroy the team, players and even the whole league because if someone succumbs to unfaithful acts like match fixing it turns to be a type of lethal scandal in the entire world of football. While warning against dishonest, we loudly urge all those involved in a colourful painting of the league to be aware of it since unfaithfulness destroys the integrity of the game and overall enjoyment by fans. Though there was no serious scandal reported this season, we take this time to caution the league stakeholders to continue building a good reputation until the end of the 38th round since a slip at the last stage can ruin everything. We end up by saluting all teams and players who contributed much in making us enjoy the excitement of the league until its climax.