WELL-equipped Dodoma Jiji have gallantly climbed to a top flight league and will be among the 18 teams to herald the beauty and challenge of the 2010-21 league season. Based at the dead centre of the country, Dodoma Jiji won the heavily contested promotion after a 2-0 victory over Iringa United at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma yesterday. Determination to win the match and promotion was seen right after the start and the game and it took them barely 5 minutes to register their opener through Anuary Jabir. Their opponents responded strongly after conceding the goal, but none of their raids failed to pay dividends. Dodoma consolidated their victory in the 32nd minute and this time it was Mcha Khamis who decorated his team. Khamis scored the goal through penalty following a foul play at their goals. Dodoma Jiji FC finished top of group A after collecting 51 points and they have qualified for the Premier League next season. Out of 22 matches played, Dodoma Jiji FC have won 16 games, registered six draws and lost three matches. They have conceded 12 and netted 38 goals. Speaking to the Sunday News after the match, Dodoma Jiji (DJFC), Head coach Mbwana Makata congratulated his players for the promotion to Tanzania’s highest class league. He said the league was not easy because all the teams were well prepared and they gave his team a stiff challenge on the pitch. Makata, the former Alliance FC, Rhino Rangers and Tanzania Prisons tactician, thanked their die hard supporters for supporting their team and turning up in a big number whenever they played. He also thanked the Dodoma city council, the club’s management and Dodoma Regional Football Association (DOREFA), for helping them to achieve their promotion goal. Dodoma Jiji FC skipper, Jacob Anderson thanked Dodoma Jiji FC fans and club management for their wholeheartedly support from the start to the end of the league. Players who helped the team to earn Premier League promotion are Hussein Masalanga, Hassan Kapona, Abubakary Ngalema, Emmanuel Mseja, Mussa Kirungi, Anderson Solomon, Joseph Mapembe, Juma Mnyasa and Hamadi Kibopile. Others are Joshua Soka, Ibrahim Ngecha, Mbwana Bakari, Rajabu Kibela, James Mendy, Jeremiah Haule, Moshi Mrisho, Desderius Kigawa, Anuary Jabir and Ahmed Ally.