THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has dismissed as baseless claims by the main opposition Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) that it is being manipulated as a political tool for attaining political objectives. The corruption watchdog’s clarification came after some Chadema Members of Parliament were questioned over alleged misuse of the party’s funds, including the contributions made by legislators to the party. A statement issued yesterday by the PCCB Public Relations Officer, Ms Doreen Kapwani on behalf of Director General Brigadier General John Mbungo, said that PCCB is an independent agency which executes its roles in compliance with legal requirements. She called upon the party members to continue cooperating with the anti-corruption agency on the matter because they are required to do so under the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act No 11 of 2007. “The PCCB advises Chadema members to remain calm as they wait for investigation results,” Ms Kapwani said. She recalled that Chadema members were the ones who raised the allegations over the embezzlement of the funds which were being deducted from every Special Seats MP and those representing constituencies from their monthly salaries. Ms Kapwani said that the complaints raised by some MPs in Parliament over misuse of the party’s funds are not only a criminal offence but also a source of information for PCCB. The anti-corruption agency further dismissed as unfounded claims that some MPs who were being interrogated were from the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi because the questioning is based on the raised complaints. “We would like to inform the public that investigations on the allegations raised by Chadema MPs are underway and the demand for some documents related to investigations is a normal procedure, “ she said. In the middle of last month, PCCB summoned 69 Members of Parliament under Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) for questioning over alleged misuse of the party’s funds. According to a statement issued by the PCCB Relations Officer, Ms Doreen Kapwani, the said lawmakers would be interrogated alongside other former MPs of the opposition party. “This action is being carried out as a continuation of the investigation by PCCB Headquarters on complaints against Chadema’s funds expenditure, whereby the current position is to interrogate 69 MPs and former members of the party,” reads part of the statement. The money in question related to what former legislators who defected from the party, claimed were deductions from their monthly salary from June 2016. It is further stated in the statement that, according to the complaint, 1,560,000/- was being deducted from each Special Seats MP’s monthly salary, while those representing constituencies had a sum of 520, 000/- deducted every month from their salaries.