THE fifth phase government commitment to guarantee access to clean and safe water in rural and urban areas has ended water woes in many parts of the country. According to the National Development Vision 2025 that targets to increase water supply in urban areas by 95 percent and 85 per cent in rural areas, the National Water Policy 2002 has set a goal that would supply water to the citizens within 400 meters in their residents. According to recent statistics issued by the government,  access to clean and safe water in rural areas has increased  from 47 percent in 2015  to 70.1  percent this year, while  in urban areas it has improved from 74 percent  in  2015  to 84  percent  in 2020. During 2015 general election campaigns, President John Magufuli promised to improve water supply in the country after learning that many voters/locals mentioned it as their major concern. Immediately after he assumed office, Dr Magufuli directed the Ministry of Water to design ways that would facilitate reliable water supply to the needy communities that is also part the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi  (CCM), election manifesto. Among the major water projects executed during his leadership, includes Lake Victoria Water project which is expected to benefit millions of Tanzanians upon completion. The project   involves pumping of water from the lake to different towns and villages in Nzega, Tabora and Igunga through long pipelines from the shores of the lake to the target areas. Dissolving the 11th Parliament in Dodoma  recently, President John  Magufuli  asserted that the pumping of water  from  Lake  Victoria  to Nzega, Tabora  and  Igunga  is among the major   projects  in progress,  being executed by the fifth phase government. The head of state noted that in the past five years   the government has executed a total of 1,423 water projects, where 1,268 are in rural areas and 155 in urban areas and have improved their residents’ access to the precious liquid. In 2019/2020 budget estimates, Minister for Water Prof Makame Mbarawa said   some villages such as Isaka and Kagongwa in Kahama and Tabora Region have started to benefit from the project. He said that 14 out of 40 villages close to Kashwasa main pipeline were accessing water, where 38,348 villagers were benefiting. He added that by April last year the remaining villages had access to water. Prof  Mbarawa  further  said that the project of pumping  water  from  Kashwasa main  water pipeline to  Tabora,  Igunga and Nzega  towns and  Uyui District  at  a cost of  US  dollar  268.35 million  (equivalent  to 622bn/-) was funded by  soft loan from the Indian  government, in an implementation expected to be completed in last fiscal year. "This project  guarantees  water access  by 100 per cent to 1.1 million  residents of  Tabora, Igunga and Nzega  towns, Uyui District and 110  villages  within 12 kilometers  from the main pipeline," Prof  Mbarawa  said. He said the project was implemented in three segments, where the first one involved laying water pipes within 93.3 kilometers from Solwa village in Shinyanga to Nzega Towns. "Another pipeline was for 103.8 kilometers connecting Nzega Town to Tabora Municipality through Uyui District, and another laying 80 kilometers pipeline connecting Nzega with Igunga" said the minister. Prof Mbarawa   further said that the government has also set objectives and plans to improve access to clean and safe water in 2020/2021 fiscal year. He said the government will continue to implement Lake Victoria water project to serve communities close to the water source, noting: "This project  consultant  has  completed  the feasibility study  and  it will be implemented in Mwanza,  Kagera,  Geita,  Mara  and  Simiyu involving   301 villages  in the regions.” He further said that plans were under way to improve water services in Dodoma Capital   through Lake Victoria Water Project. "To realise this, the ministry of water formed a task force to prepare a feasibility study for the proposed project...its execution plan  and will benefit areas along the main pipeline including Singida Region and villages within 12 kilometers from the pipeline," said the minister. 