THE Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Governments), Mr Selemani Jafo, yesterday ordered departments under his docket to buy locally produced construction materials for the construction of public health centres, primary and secondary schools across the country. Minister Jafo noted that the government has allocated 170bn/- during this financial year to implement construction of classrooms for primary and secondary schools as well as repairs of  old secondary schools. President John Magufuli had directed that the construction works should be implemented within three months. So far, out of 89 old schools, the government has repaired 75 schools countrywide, and the remaining 16 will be repaired during this financial year.He noted that the government had been spending a lot of money on implementing projects at regional and district levels. If allocated to local industries, these funds would significantly contribute to the growth of local industries and increase job opportunities to serve the country’s middle income economy and boost industrialization,” Mr Jafo stated when he visited the Africab Tanzania in Dar es Salaam.He added: “As long as we want the economy to go faster we should direct these funds to local industries.” During his visit there, the minister expressed satisfaction over the industry’s capacity, noting that Tanzania’s manufacturers were really capable of supplying materials for implementing public projects. The Africab produces electrical materials such as cables, transformers and PVC pipes. “I will inspect all projects that are implemented in regional and local governments, I want to see if the materials are produced in Tanzania,” he remarked. Temeke District Commissioner Godwin Gondwe, who accompanied Mr Jafo during the visit, gave an assurance that the district would ensure that the construction of classrooms and markets used locally made materials. Africab Marketing Executive Officer David Tarimo said the minister’s visit had inspired them and promised to increase production. “We promise to produce quality products after the government decided to use locally made materials to meet local demand,” he said. So far, the industry exports materials to countries that include Zambia, Rwanda, Burundi and South Africa.