BUSINESSMAN Migisha Hume (33) appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Friday charged with fraud and obtaining 438,035 US dollars (over 1bn/-) fraudulently in a deal involving cashewnuts crop. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Yusto Ruboroga, the businessman, who resides at Ununio area in the city, denied the charges. He was remanded until August 6, when the case comes up for preliminary hearing, as investigations into the matter are complete. The prosecution, led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, had not objected to the grant of bail to the accused person, but invited the court to consider the amount involved in the charges and the law, in particular, the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). When considering bail to the accused, the magistrate ordered the accused to meet certain conditions, including signing a bond of 10m/- and secure two reliable sureties, who were also to sign bond of similar amount each. The magistrate further directed that since the amount involved exceeded 10m/-, the accused person shall, therefore, in terms of section 148 (4) (e) of the CPA, deposit in court either 600m/- as cash bail or surrender a title deed of immovable property certified at the same amount. Such businessman failed to meet the set conditions. His advocate, Themistocles Rwegasira requested the court to set a short adjournment of the trial, presumably the case to come on July 27, 2020, to allow his client make arrangements for the sureties to bail him out. The magistrate, however, rejected the prayer and directed the defence to complete all arrangements in fulfilling the set conditions, and upon being satisfied the court would issue a removal order for the accused to be brought from remand prison anytime for bail consideration. Prosecuting, the prosecution told the court that on April 18, 2018 in the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam, with intent to defraud, the accused person forged a bank slip of NMB Bank amounting to 100m/-, purporting that it was genuinely issued by the Bank, while it was untrue. The court was told that on the same date in the City, the accused person uttered the said document to one Sewale Kangaru, who is also believed to be a businessman dealing in cashewnuts business. The accused persons purportedly showed that the bank slip was genuine, while it was false. It is alleged by the prosecution further that on the same date in Dar es Salaam, with intent to deceive and defraud, the businessman obtained from Mr Kangaru a sum of 438,035 US dollars (about 1.007bn/-) by falsely pretending that he would do cashewnuts business, while it was untrue.