SINCE Friday Tanzanians led by President John Magufuli are mourning for the sudden death of third phase government President Benjamin Mkapa. Various government leaders and dignitaries have offered condolences to President Magufuli, the aggrieved family and Tanzanians in general for this irreversible loss. Mkapa has done a lot to Tanzania and its people, neighbouring countries, Africa and the world in general for the very fact of being the third phase President of the United Republic of Tanzania from 1995 to 2005 and serving as a diplomat to Canada in 1982-1983 and the US from 1983-1984. During his tenure of office Tanzania played a role in peacekeeping missions and strengthening diplomatic relations and international trade with world governments, this being part of Tanzania’s contribution to world peace, solidarity and international trade and relationship with regional and international non-state actors. Guests from various parts of the world are expected to attend a requiem mass at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today from 10:00am and give their last respects before his body will be transported to his home village of Lupaso in Masasi District, Mtwara Region, for burial on Wednesday. Mkapa’s death reminds us of our short-lived lives and for believers it is not the end of life, but the beginning of new and eternal life. Although we are mourning, we are indebted to him to continue the good things he has left behind. Both his strengths and weaknesses teach us something–that we have to take note of the advice he has been giving us as Tanzanians, East Africans and Africans and forgive him for what he failed as a human being. Thus, although his death is a great loss to us, it is also a stepping stone to do more and accomplish what he left for us. The solidarity and unity we have shown is a sign that we will remain united and build our nation as one people. Even recent World Bank (WB)’s classification of Tanzania into a lower middle-income economy is a result of Mkapa’s contribution. In the first paragraph of the Development Vision 2025’s Foreword, Mkapa says: “We are standing at the threshold of the 21st century, a century that will be characterised by competition. It is clear, therefore, that it will be a century dominated by those with advanced technological capacity, high productivity, modern and efficient transport and communication infrastructure and, above all highly skilled manpower imbued with initiative. If we are to be active participants in the global developments of the 21st century we must, as a nation, find ways of improving and strengthening ourselves in all these areas.” We say goodbye to Mkapa and pray to God so that he may be raised up in his eternal glory. Amen.