THE government has said candidates nominated by political parties for the forthcoming general election will receive government support to realise their political dreams. Permanent Secretary (PS), in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Nixon Nzunda assured the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance (CHRAGG) and civil society organisations during the closing of a two-day workshop to discuss the position of women, the youth and people with disabilities in the general election in October. He said the government would welcome all political nominees regardless of their gender, colour, disability or age to participate in decision-making positions in the country. “Our priority is that all nominated candidates must fulfil legal requirements for specific positions they apply for,” he noted. He pointing out that all key stakeholders had been involved and they fully participated in preparations for the general election. “All eligible voters have been registered. The government will ensure there is a supportive environment to all participants and there won’t be a room for people to disrupt peace and order,” he added. The government vowed to ensure every individual interested in vying for a political position was encouraged and supported and the general election would be held freely and fairly across the country. He urged the CHRAGG and other human rights groups to help prepare right candidates who met public expectations and find right solution to problems facing them. About 40 percent of Members of Parliament (MPs) were women in the just ended 11th Parliament. The number also included young people and people with disabilities. For councillors one-third of them were women, but the number of people with disabilities was low. “I assure you that in Africa we are ahead of many other countries,” he said. Peace, Legal Aid and Justice Centre (PLAJC) representative, Catherine Fredrick said the meeting was organised to put in place workable strategies that would help women, the youth and people with disabilities to participate fully in the general election. Her part, Ms Fatma Khalifan from the CHRAGG said it was important that all stakeholders collaborated to ensure the general election was inclusive, free and fair.