TOWARDS the end  of  2017;  some  individuals  actively  started  an  unethical  campaign  for  the   ‘desecration’  of  the  country’s  Constitution. It  all  started  when  it  was  reported  in  the  print  media  that  “a  CCM  cadre,  Lawrence  Mabawa,  made  public  his  campaign  which  he  branded  as  “Baki  Magufuli”. It  was  further  reported  that  a  Member  of  Parliament,  Juma  Nkamia ,  had  joined  the  bandwagon  when  he  revealed,  in  a  WhatsApp  posting,  his  plan  to  file  a  ‘Private  Member’s  motion’  in  the  next  session  of  Parliament,  calling  for  a  change to  be  made  in  the  Constitution  of  the  United  Republic,  in  order  to  make  new  provision  for  three  Presidential  terms  of  office,  instead  of  the  existing  two  terms”. Then  on  13th  January, 2018; an  curt  statement  issued  from  State  House,  Dar es Salaam,  announcing  President  Magufuli’s  firm  response  to  these  campaigns;  when   he  said  the  following:  “I  am  not  interested in  staying  on  after  the  expiry  of  my  two  terms  . . . In  my  solemn  oath  upon  taking    office,  I   vowed   to  abide  by  the  Constitution.  There  is  no  way  I  can  lead  the  country  for  more  than  ten  years.  That  is  just  impossible.   I  must  respect  the  Constitution”. Following  the  President’s  response  to  such   unethical  campaigns,   I  joyfully  wrote  an  article,   in  which  I  said  thus:  “by  this  announcement,  President  Magufuli  has firmly  closed  the  door  to  any  such  thinking,  planning,  or  even  maneuvering  by  anyone,  towards  that  objective”.  I  even  borrowed  the  famous  Latin  expression  which  is   dominant  in  the  teachings  of  the  catholic  church,  namely   “Roma  locuta,  causa  finita”. But,  alas,  this   campaign  was  resurrected  in  the  National  Assembly  during  the  debate  on  the  2020/21  Government  budget.  I  was  contacted  by  some  journalist  and  asked  to  express  my  opinion  on  this  matter;  and  my  response was  the  same  as  before,  namely  that    “ It  is  an  unethical   proposal  for  the  desecration  of  the  country’s  Constitution,  and  an  undisciplined  disregard  of  the  President’s    candidly   expressed  opinion,  firmly  rejecting  this  idea”. CHADEMA’s   constitutional  cases “CHADEMA  files  constitutional  cases”  was  the  big  news  reported  by  THE  CITIZEN  Newspaper  of  Wednesday,  28th  February,  2018;  which  reported  as  follows:  “The  main  Opposition  political  party  CHADEMA,  has  filed  two  constitutional  cases,  through  which  they  are  questioning  the  legality  of  certain  political  conduct  in  the  country. Specifically,  they  are  questioning  the  legality  of  Presidential  appointees  like  the  District  Executive  Directors (DeDs),  also  acting  as  Returning  Officers  during  elections”.  The  report  quoted  Makongoro  Mahanga,  the  Ilala  CHADEMA  District  Chairman,  as  having  said  the  following:  “We  have  started with  two  cases,  but  within  a  period  of  two  months,  we  will  have  filed  at least  ten  such  cases”. I  wrote  an  article  praising  this  action  by  CHADEMA,  in  which  I  said  the  following   “This  action  by  CHADEMA  is  indeed  commendable,  for  it  is  a  welcome  departure  from  their  hitherto  wholly  unproductive  methods  of  merely  making  public  statements,  or  condemnations,  of  alleged  breaches  of    Constitutional  provisions. Such  statements  do certainly  attract  public  attention,  but  they  have  always  left  the  disputed  matters  undetermined.   This  constitutional  litigation  will  have  the  positive  outcome  of  enabling  the  relevant  courts  of  competent  jurisdiction  to  determine  those  matters  which  are  in  dispute”. Unfortunately,  however,  the  promised  ten  constitutional  cases  were  never  filed;  and  thus, the   expected  outcomes  did  not  materialize. This   reminded  me  of  that  famous  British  Statesman,  Sir  Winston  Churchill’s  statement,  that  “politics  is  the  ability  to  tell  what  is  going  to  happen  tomorrow,  or  next week,  or  next  year;  and  the  ability  to  explain  afterwards  why  it  did  not  happen”.   But  Makongoro  Mahanga  never  explained  afterwards  why  the  promised  ten  cases  were  not  filed  as  promised. President  Magufuli’s   innovative  style  of  leadership “MAGUFULI  TAPS  ELDERS’  WISDOM”  was  the  eye-catching  front  page  headline  of  the  DAILY  NEWS  of  Wednesday,  4th  July,  2018.  That  Paper  was  reporting  on  President  John  Magufuli’s   historic   meeting  with   the  former  leaders  of  all  the  three  pillars  of  state  governance  on  the  previous  day. One   event  of  significant  importance  which  occurred  on   3rd July,  2018,  was  when  President  Magufuli  demonstrated  his  new  and  innovative  style  of  leadership;  namely,   his  determination  “to  tap  the  Elders’  wisdom”. It  was  a  wholly   unexpected,  and  totally  unprecedented  event. On  3rd  July,  2018,    President  Magufuli   convened a  historic  meeting  with  all  the  former  top-leaders (who  are  now in  honourable  retirement)  of  all  the  three  ‘Pillars  of  State’,   namely  the  Executive,  the  Legislature,  and  the  Judiciary.  The  meeting  was  also  attended by  the  current  leaders  of  those  Institutions.      The  former  leaders  of  the  three  ‘pillars  of  state  governance’  who  attended  that  meeting,  were  the  following:- •              From  the  Executive  Branch,  came  former  Union  Presidents  Ali  Hassan  Mwinyi;  Benjamin  William  Mkapa.  (Former  Union  President  Jakaya  Kikwete  sent  his  apologies  for  inability  to  attend,  as  he  was  out  of  the  country).   But  also  present  was   the  former  Union  Vice-President  Mohamed  Gharib  Bilal;  and  former  Zanzibar  President  Amani  Abeid  Karume. Then  there  were  all  the  six   former  Prime  Ministers: Cleopa  David  Msuya;  Salim  Ahmed  Salim;   Joseph  Sinde  Waioba;  John  Sammuel  Malecela;  and  Mizengo  Peter  Pinda. •              From  the  Legislative  Branch,  came  the  two  former  Speakers,  Pius  Chipanda  Msekwa;  and  Anne  Semamba  Makinda. •              From  the  Judiciary  Branch,   came all  the  three  former  Chief  Justices:  Barnabas  Samatta;  Augustine  Ramadhani;  and  Mohamed  Chande  Othman. But  also  in  attendance  were   the  current  leaders  of  two   Branches:  The  President  himself;  Prime  Minister  Kassim  Majaliwa;  and  Speaker  of  the  National  Assembly  Job  Ndugai.  The  current  Chief  Justice  had  sent  his apologies  for  inability  to  attend.  It  was,  no  doubt,  a  very  distinguished  gathering  of  ‘Elders’;  and  was  reminiscent  of  a  famous   old  African  adage,  of   “African  Elders  in  their  village  sit  down   under  a  tree and  talk,  until  they  agree”. The   unprecedented  defection  of  Opposition  MPs  to  CCM In  parliamentary  parlance,  the  action  of  an  MP   defecting  from  his  political  party  to  another   party  of  his  choice,  is  called  “crossing  the  floor”.   This  is  because  of  the  traditional  seating  arrangements  within   the  British  House  of  Commons,  where  the  Ruling  party  members  sit  on  one  side  of  the  House;  while  the  Opposition  party  members  sit  on  the  opposite  side,  with   a  stretch  of  the  House   floor  separating  the  two  sides. Thus  for  an  MP  who  changes  his   party  affiliation,  it  means  that  he  has  to  cross  this  floor,  in  order  to  join   the   party  MPs  sitting   on  the  opposite  side.  This,  indeed  is  an  accepted  normal  practice   in  all  the  Commonwealth  Parliamentary  jurisdictions. During  the  year  2018,   Opposition  members  of  Parliament  started  “crossing  the  floor”,   to  join  the  Ruling  party  CCM.  All  of  those  who  spoke  to  the  Press  about  their  actions  disclosed  that  they had  been  attracted  by  President  Magufuli’s    excellent  performance,  and  had   decided  to  show  their  support  and  encourage  him  by  joining  his  political  party. But  there  were  also  those  who  misinterpreted  this  action,  by  wrongly  claiming  that  this  was  CCM’s  strategy  “to  kill  the  Opposition”  in  Parliament. In  response  to these  misconceived  opinions,  I  wrote  a special  article  for  the  DAILY  NEWS,  aimed  at  stating  the  factors  that  normally  motivate  MPs  to  “cross  the  floor”;  in  which  I  explained  the  factors  that  motivate  MPS  defections  to  other  political  parties,  as  follows:- “The  motives  will  inevitably  vary  between  the  MPs  concerned;  depending  on   the  individual  person,  and  the   political  circumstances  obtaining  at  the  material  time.    But  generally  speaking,  they  revolve  around  two  distinct  factors,  namely  the  “push”  factors  on  the  one  hand;  and  the  “pull”  factors  on  the  other. The  ‘push’  factors  are  those  unbearable  conditions  which  literally  ‘force’  a  person  to  quit  a  given   organization  to  which   he  belongs;  and  the  ‘pull’  factors  are  those    attractive  conditions  which  would  induce  a  person  to  join  an  Organization .  .  .  with  regard  to  the  recent  defections  by  Opposition  MPs  to  the  Ruling  party,  we  have  heard  it  ‘live’  from  the  defectors  themselves,  claiming  to  have  been  ‘utterly  disappointed  by  the  leadership  of  their  erstwhile  parties’  (the  ‘push’  factor;  or  that  they  have  been  attracted  by  President  Magufulis’s  impressive  efforts  in  guiding  the  affairs  of  our  nation,  and,  specifically,  his  handling  of   the  development  agenda.   We  have no  palpable  reason  to  doubt  the  sincerity  of  their  statements”. In  confirmation  of  the  reality  of  this “pull’  factor,  defections  from  the  Opposition  parties  to  the  Ruling  party  vastly  increased  during  the  period  approaching   the  dissolution  of  the  11th  Parliament. The  events  of  2019 On  5th  November,   2019;  President  Magufuli  completed  four  years  of  his  first  term  as  President  of  the  United  Republic.  For  several  days  prior  to  that  date, the  DAILY  NEWS   published  an  advertisement  titled  “ President  Magufuli’s   four  legendary   successful  years”;   in  which   they  promised  to  publish,  on  5th  November,  2019;    a  special  supplement  to  mark  that  event,  and  invited  members  of  the  public  “to  express  their  candid  opinions  in  assessing  President  Magufuli’s  performance  during  that  period”. This  advertisement  received  a  very  good  public  response;  and   what  we  eventually  saw  in  that  special  supplement,  was  a  vast  array  of  opinions  from a  wide  variety  of  commentators,  including  renowned  academicians   such  as    Professor  Patrick  Lumumba,  and  many  others. I  was  motivated  to  write  an  article  for  the  DAILY  NEWS;  in  which  I  expressed  my  appreciation  of  the  action  taken  by  that  Paper.  For  it  reminded  me  of  the  Biblical  saying  in  Luke 9, 18 – 21,  regarding  the  story  of  Jesus  asking  his  disciples the  question:  “what  does  the  assembled  congregation  say  that  I  am ?”                                                                                                           Thus,  asking  the  people  to  make   an  assessment  of  their  leader  is  the  most  reliable  method.  And,  basically,  that  is  also  the  purpose  of  this  year’s Presidential  election:  to  make  an  assessment  of  President  Magufuli’s  performance. (Will  be  continued  next  week) piomsekwa@gmail,com  /   0754767576.