GAMERS around the world will be able to test themselves against the unrelenting challenge of links golf as the inaugural e-Open presented by MasterCard launches this week. The virtual stroke play tournament will be taking place over the iconic links of Royal St George’s from this July to September 8th, with qualifying events and knock-out rounds running throughout to a Grand Final showdown in September. Players of all skill levels from beginners to advanced gamers can take part and will be powered by the WGT by Topgolf platform, the world’s most realistic free virtual golf game which has been enjoyed worldwide by more than 28 million players. Neil Armit, Chief Commercial Officer at The R&A, press release that ‘Daily News on Saturday’ had its copy said, “We have seen e-sports become hugely popular and enjoyed by gamers all around the world. “The e-Open presented by MasterCard will give golf fans a unique opportunity on a global platform to challenge themselves against other gamers in a virtual tournament over Royal St George’s. “We have been working on The e-Open for some time now and are pleased to be able to launch the inaugural tournament during what was due to be the week of the Championship this year. It will complement The Open for The Ages, which is being broadcast this Sunday as a very special celebration of the Championship.” He said that they are excited to share The Open experience digitally with fans throughout the world. “With new advances to our livestream capabilities, our WGT by Topgolf platform makes accessible one of the most prestigious tournaments on the same course as the pros, outfitted with first-hand challenges, rewards and nuances of Royal St George’s”, said President of Topgolf Media, Yu Chiang Cheng. “We are humbled to be selected by The R&A to produce the first ever official e-Open and allow anyone with a smartphone or computer to have the chance to win it.” As presenting partner of The e-Open, and Official Patron of The Open, MasterCard is helping to make sure that the very first e-Open will be one fans will not forget. During the qualifying round, two MasterCard golf ambassadors will take part in a priceless experience by swapping their clubs for keyboards and go head-to-head in live Exhibition Match to be played over Royal St George’s. Fans will be able to tune into the live action in what will prove to be a real highlight of the new tournament. World class prizes will be on offer for the champion of The e-Open (subject to eligibility as defined in the Official Rules and Regulations), including a once-in-a-lifetime experience at The 149th Open at Royal St George’s next year. Exclusive content and digital experiences will also be made available for fans through Priceless.com. The tournament will be played through a series of rounds over the coming weeks in a longer style format. Following qualification, a competitive knockout stage will be played from 27-30 August before the Grand Final is contested by the very best players on 8 September.