SIR Winston Churchill who is best remembered for successfully leading Britain through World War II was also famous for his inspiring speeches and words. He once said: “We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.” Until now, these words inspire and motivate many to do things that touch and change lives of fellow human beings for the better. People strive to do things in their own way to make impact and make the world a better place. A Tanzanian innovator, Colman Ndetembea (23), is one of those inspired by Sir Churchill and he believes that life is made by what we give to others. Thanks to his ingenuity, the young man is trying hard to help children with motor impairment through a unique wheelchair he has innovated. “The wheelchair combines several important features and it is tailored to the needs and conditions in the developing countries,” Mr Ndetembea says of the wheelchair christened Kyaro chair. Kyaro means “safari” in one of the languages in northern Tanzania. “It carries our philosophy as we want to bring progress in the quality of life of our users and through mobility enable them to be more independent and productive,” explains Colman. The World Health Organisation (WHO) statistics shows that over 75 million people in the world are in need of appropriate wheelchairs. However 85 to 95 per cent of those in need do not have access. The situation is worse in Africa where only 5.0 per cent of 10 million people who need appropriate wheelchair get that access. “This situation leads to huge challenge to many people with disability where it limits them to access basic social services and even opportunities,” Colman notes. Working with other colleagues at the innovation space, Kyaro Assistive Tech he founded in 2019 in Arusha, the innovators use their knowledge, creativity, time and energy to address the challenge of accessibility to appropriate wheelchairs to those in need. Kyaro chair is their first innovation toward that noble goal. They want to make Kyaro chair easy to retain and repair and affordable to people in Tanzania, Africa and the world. Should this innovation be scaled up, Kyaro chair can be a huge relief to many. Colman says: “It is important to step up efforts to provide the country’s disabled people with assistive devices, therapy and opportunities.” The unique multipurpose tool can serve as a wheelchair, standing frame and a bed to help people with muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy and spinal cord injuries. In a few seconds, the chair can switch configuration to a standing frame, which is used in physical therapy applications to build strength in the legs, or a bench, for changing clothes. As it is now, a person with a child of such disabilities has to buy all three devices separately-a chair, a standing frame and a bed. This translates to huge costs. Moreover, as a child grows; such devices have to be changed as well. An inclusive and unique processing design was employed. The team involved children with cerebral palsy, their parents, families, caregivers, teachers and therapists. This helped to address the very challenges that these children and families face. The materials and technology was from Tanzania and so this helped to bring the cost down. The technology has been tested in various hospitals in Arusha and performed very well. Upon completion one Kyaro chair can cost 650,000 /=, a far way better price considering its uniqueness. The multipurpose nature of Kyaro chair and the involvement of various players in the process to create it make Colman believe that their innovation is a very important contribution to assistive industry not only in Tanzania but in Africa and the whole world. “It is going to help a lot of children with cerebral palsy. It is a life changing technology,” Colman believes. He is a recent graduate from Mbeya University of Science and Technology where he was undertaking Ordinary Diploma of Mechatronics Engineering. He is passionate about bridging the gap between education from school and the challenges facing the community through innovative user centered solutions and believes that through this a lot of fields can be revolutionized in Africa. Colman works with Sudi Muli who is a consultant in occupational therapy; Eamon O’Brien, a Robotics Engineer who collaborate and iterate with Kyaro remotely from Massachusetts in the USA as Engineering Lead, Lameck Lawrence who deals with public relations and communications, and Saada Abdallah who is a recent graduate in Mechatronics Engineering and a writer and deals with administration in Kyaro Assistive Tech. The team is thankful for the support from different spaces including Twende Social Innovation Centre, Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), Anza business accelerator, CCBRT, Songambele Initiative and the Ministry of Education through MAKISATU. It is obvious that the world will need more assistive devices and so the need for more innovations and strong assistive industries. Statistics shows that the global population is ageing while non-communicable diseases are on the rise and according to the WHO estimates, more than two billion people will need at least 1 assistive product by 2030, with many older people needing two or more. It is imperative for Tanzania, Africa and the world to help innovators like Colman for the needs of their creativity are huge and growing by day. These innovators may have smart brains and the will to impact societies, but they need help to scale up their innovations, start industries and market their products. It is about time ‘to give and make a life’ as advised by Sir Winston Churchill and this can be done by individuals, corporations and government through helping Colman and other innovators realize their big dreams. ● Emmanuel Rubagumya writes about science, technology and innovation. Email: innovationstz@gmail.com