RELIGIOUS leaders and analysts have commended the National Electoral Commission (NEC) for scheduling the general election on a weekday and not on Sunday, which has been a norm in the past. The NEC has set Wednesday, October 28 date for the upcoming general election, the first time ever Tanzanians will be casting votes midweek. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’, the Chairman of the Dar es Salaam Region Peace Committee, Sheikh Alhad Mussa Salum welcomed the decision, noting that for several years religious leaders have appealed to the electoral commission to review the elections day by ensuring it did not fall on worshipping days. “ We are happy that this year the election day will not be on Sunday, nor Saturday or Friday; which are the days of worship for Christians, Adventists and Muslims; that means everyone will be able to exercise their rights without any interruptions,” remarked Sheikh Salum. Sheikh Salum said the decision has proved that NEC puts much weight on the importance of the right to worship, an aspect that is also much embraced by the fifth-phase government. He further said religious leaders applaud that decision, and in doing so God continues to bless Tanzania, as the country fulfils what the holy books say ‘Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s; and to God the things that are God’s,’. A Political Science Lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Dr Richard Mbunda said election is a sensitive issue in the nation that everyone must get the chance to participate accordingly. “It had been suggested that the election be held in the middle of the week to give people a chance to go and worship freely because elections are held once every five years so it is not wrong to allocate one day in a week for voting,” he said. While lauding the NEC’s decision to move election day to Wednesday, Dr Mbunda said it was an important way to enable everyone to part in the polls without any hindrance. For a couple of years, religious leaders and politicians alike have appealed for a change of polling day to ensure election dates do not interfere with the people’s right to worship. In 2015, during a special prayer service for the general election, members of the Full Gospel Bible Fellowship Church (FGBF) led by Archbishop Zachary Kakobe wore T-shirts with the words ‘Election Should not be held on Sunday’. Bishop Kakobe gave examples of the countries around Tanzania that conduct their General Elections in days other than Friday, Saturday and Sunday such as Zambia, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and South Africa. Since Tanzania assumed the multiparty democracy in 1995 the National Electoral Commission (NEC) has always been picking Sunday as the voting day in General Elections.