INVESTORS in Tanzania may now have an opportunity to invest in the country’s hotel sector, especially the country’s capital, Dodoma, after the government on Friday announced that not a single hotel here is in the four or five star classification. Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Constantine Kanyasu, welcomed investors when commissioning three hotels that have a three star rating level in Dodoma, at an occasion that was attended by several delegates from across the city. As of yesterday, there were only three hotels that qualify to attain a three star status according to the international levels. They are Fantasy Village, Nashera Hotel and New Dodoma Hotel. But one hotel, Morena, was the focus of considerable expectations at the occasion. In what happened to be yet another surprise to many people who attended the occasion and others visiting Dodoma, the famous facility attained two star hotel status. Other hotels that meet the quality of a two star assessment level, are St Gasper Hotel and Conference Centre, Loyal Village Hotel, African Dream and Mesuma Lodge. Customers seeking hotels with a one star level, according to yesterday’s report on Classification and Accommodation Facilities in the country who wish to visit Dodoma may opt for only three main centres. They are Four Points Hotel, Hotel Kitemba and Nala Centurium Hotel. Hotel ratings are often used to classify hotels according to their quality. Among the qualities are food services, entertainment, view, room variations such as size and additional amenities, fitness centres, ease of access and location. Hotels are independently assessed in traditional systems and heavily on the facilities provided. Some consider this disadvantageous to smaller hotels whose quality of accommodation could fall into one class but the lack of an item may prevent it from reaching a higher categorization. However, industry experts look on other hotels that are classified as approved ones in two grades: A and B. In Dodoma according to Friday report, whoever wants to make booking in this category may choose the former at Dodoma Rock Hotel, Johanic Hotel and Munich Hotel.