THE Social Responsibility arm of Simba known as ‘Simba Jamii’, has donated a tri-cycle to a disabled boy, Goodluck Julius, a resident of Kwa-Mrombo area of Arusha city. A member of the Simba Jamii Committee from Dar-es-Salaam, Irene Kabuta was the one who officially handed the three-wheeled motorcycle to the beneficiary on behalf of the Sports Club saying the team, not only focuses on soccer related issues, but also considers the development of people as well as the wellbeing of women and children. Young Goodluck thanked Simba Sports Club for the donation, saying he will now ride to school alone because previously it was his mother who used to carry him on her back, to and from school. Goodluck attends a kindergarten school at Msasani part of Kwa-Mrombo. It used to take his mother some 15 minutes to carry him to school and another 15 minutes back after class. The Chairperson of Kwa-Mrombo branch of Simba, Zuberi Daffo said the club has been extending humanitarian services to members of the community especially disadvantaged people, with the aim of ensuring all citizens live a happy life, because when it comes to sports, it is all about making people happy. Daffo was presenting the statement on behalf of the Simba Jamii Secretary General, at National Levels, Severine Kasimba (Chelsimba), who stated that the tri-cycle should help the 6-years-old boy’s movements, especially going to and from school daily. Speaking on behalf of Simba Sports Club members of Arusha, the SSC Secretary in Arusha Region, Thabiti Ustaadh thanked the club’s supporters who have good heart in remembering the predicaments of community members. “Each member of Simba Sports Club must ensure that he or she takes responsibility to make their local areas a better place for living; We should not wait for assistance from foreigners,” he said. He reminded all members, fans and supporters of Simba to secure membership cards or revive old ones so as to ensure that the team remains strong with a large base of followers.