THE Lupaso home of late former President Benjamin Mkapa is a beehive of activities with mourners and officials making final preparations for his burial ceremony due tomorrow. Mtwara Regional Commissioner, Mr Gelasius Byakanwa told reporters here that the preparations had reached 80 per cent by Monday. He said the construction of the grave was almost complete and that they were fixing tents for guests who are expected to attend the burial service. The regional administration has set special arrange ments for receiving guests including strengthening security in the region. “We are expecting to receive top government leaders, members of the international community, leaders from neighbouring countries and across Africa, therefore we are doing everything to ensure the region is safe, and we are prepared for that,” he noted. On accommodation, the RC said preparations were in place to ensure all guests are well accommodated in Masasi District and neighbouring districts such as Nachingwea, Nanyumbu and Newala. “We are aware that many hotels will be fully booked from today, therefore the guests who will not be able to get rooms in Masasi District are advised to go directly to the neighbouring districts, all of them are not far from Lupaso village,” he noted. The RC said both Mtwara and Nachingwea airports will be used for receiving leaders and other guests who are coming for the burial ceremony. Mr Byakanwa noted that Mtwara residents expect to receive the body of Mzee Mkapa today at around 5pm. After receiving the body, the mourners will start the requiem mass and continue with prayers until tomorrow, which is the burial day. “People will have enough opportunity to bid farewell to the departed Mzee Mkapa. At the end of requiem mass, individuals and institutions will get an opportunity to give condolences and tributes,” stated Mr Byakanwa. He said Mzee Mkapa will always remain a hero in the hearts of people of Mtwara for the uncountable goods he did to them and to his country. He cited the construction of 970 metres ‘Mkapa Bridge’ as one of the commendable things the late former president did to the people of Mtwara and Southern regions at large during his presidency. “The Bridge is very helpful in easing transportation to and from Mtwara. We did not have the bridge before Mkapa became the President,” he said. Giving his tribute, Retired Brigadier General Augustine Gailanga, who was aide-decamp of the late Mkapa said one of things that would remain in his memories is when Mzee Mkapa was at crossroad to pull down houses of Dar es Salaam residents to pave the way for the expansion of Morogoro Road. “Mkapa was hesitant to decide though the houses were built on road reserve because he thought of the massive loss of properties to his people,” Brig Gen Gailanga recalled. However, the late Mkapa had to agree with his then Works Minister, Dr John Magufuli who convinced that the people had to vacate to pave the way for construction by considering the importance of the project for majority Tanzanians and the country’s economy.