 DAVID Msitu’s brilliance helped Pazi beat their traditional rivals Oilers in the epic Regional Basketball League match held over the weekend in the city. The match that was one of the weekend’s big encounters was staged at the Harbours court in Kurasini saw the winners claiming a 54-52 win a closely fought encounter. Msitu, who is current Pazi top scorer with 71, was in a good form on the day after hitting 30 points while Denis Chibura added 14 more points that helped the team to secure the slim win. It was one of the highly competitive, but very entertaining match as the teams matched in almost every aspect of the game and that was seen during the breather when the scoreboard read 28-28 before Pazi ended victorious at the end. The victory was fifth for Pazi who have played five games and won all. They currently seat on the 5th place with 10 points. They are two points off the leaders JKT who have penned 12 points after playing six games. Other weekend game included that of third-placed Kurasini Heat who humiliated Magnet 87-44 in a one sided encounter. Kurasini Heat were on control of the game right from start, they led 19-5 in the first quarter , carved 20-13 in the second quarter before stamping 23-13 and 25-13 leads in the third and fourth quarters. Mwalimu Heri fired 20 points and Zani Oscar added 17 for Kurasini Heat, while Magnet’s Juma Kiziga scored 22 and Saidi Ndindi netted 8. After the Sunday games, Kurasini Heat and Pazi are looking to challenge the defending champions and leaders JKT who have carved 12 points so far. Pazi coach Mohamed Mbwana sounded a warning to JKT saying they have studied their weaknesses ahead of their game while the team’s captain Eric Lugola added that he and his fellow players are determined to win the big match. “We will use JKT’s weakness to beat them when we meet them,” said Mbwana. JKT coach, whose team is yet to concede a defeat, Chris Weba said they don’t underrate their opponents, but his team can’t allow any loss at the moment. “We are well organised as a team; we have quality players who are capable for taking rebounds and scoring, hence we at our best form now, “added Weba.