STATE Minister in the President’s Office for Regional Administration and Local Government, Seleman Jafo issued, has issued two month ultimatum to Regional Commissioners (RCs), whose regions did not remit their revenue collections to the government to do so. The Minister Seleman Jafo without going into details of the period when the RCs failed to pass the payments to the State, issued the ultimatum here while handing over some working tools to new two regional commissioners, ten District Commissioners (DCs) and a Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) after taking the oath here recently. Mr Jafo further directed the regional commissioners to ensure 170bn/- released by President John Magufuli to improve school infrastructures in every region is rightly spent on intended goals within the next three months. He said they should ensure all that any government fund which is not registered in State system is incorporated and spent for intended goals. “There were government funds released during the last financial year, but so far the funds are not in the government systems. It is compulsory now that the funds are deposited on government systems,” directed the Minister. However, Mr Jafo called upon the appointed heads to closely supervise revenues collections in their areas, because that falls within their job descriptions. “Revenues loss remains as major challenge for many councils. We TAMISEMI, thus had decided to purchase 7,227 Electronic Fiscal Devices to control revenues loss in councils,” he said. Elaborating, Mr Jafo noted that the government set goals for every council to collect internal revenues by over 90 per cent, adding that he was aware the country also faced Covid-19 pandemic crisis, but that should not be excuse for revenue collections. Equally, he directed them to supervise closely all development projects in their jurisdictions and ensure value for money is maintained, besides contractors also completing the schemes within the timeframe. “You should not go to remain in offices, go to project sites and supervise ongoing projects,” Mr Jafo observed.