MANYONI District Court at Manyoni in Singida Region has sentenced three poachers to a total of 80 years imprisonment, each for unlawful trade and possession of six elephant tusks, which are government trophies. Resident Magistrate Stella Kiama imposed such sentence last week against Joseph Barie, alias Mulda, Mefunya Daudi, alias Kitamboru and Damiano Stanslaus, alias Clement after convicting them of four economic offences they were facing. In addition, the court ordered for forfeiture to the government properties six elephant tusks from five elephants, which were killed by the poachers in question. The magistrate convicted the poachers after being satisfied with the testimony given by prosecution witnesses. During the trial, the prosecution was represented by State Attorneys Salim Msemo, Patrida Muta and Tulumanywa Majigo. According to the prosecution, the poachers were facing two counts of unlawful possession of government trophies and other two counts of dealing in government trophies. Having proved beyond reasonable doubts, the magistrate sentenced the poachers to serve 20 years in jail on each count. However, the magistrate ordered the sentences to run co-current. This means that the poachers will remain behind bars for only 20 years. The court was told that on November 2, 2017 at Manda bushes within  Chamwino District in Dodoma region, the poachers were found dealing and in possession  of government trophies, which were four elephant tusks from four elephants valued at 60,000 US dollars and estimated as 132m/-. According to the prosecution, on November 3, 2017 at the same Mpande bushes within  Manyoni District in Singida Region, the poachers were found dealing and in possession  of government trophies, which were two elephant tusks from one elephant  valued at 15,000 US dollars,  and approximated as 33,000,000/-. The court's decision comes few days after two other poachers, Juma Ramadhan, alias Kibangula and Thadei Antony, alias Ndahani, were sentenced to 160 years and to 80 years imprisonment, respectively, for unlawful dealing in and possession of government trophies and firearms. Kibangula was facing a total of eight counts, two of them of unlawful possession of firearms, three others of unlawful possession of weapons in certain circumstances and three other charges of unlawful dealing in government trophies. The magistrate sentenced him to serve a custodian sentence of 20 years for each count. On his part, the prosecution had charged Ndahani with a total of four counts, two of them related to unlawful possession of government trophies, while two others were for unlawful dealing in government trophies. As was the case for Kibangula, the magistrate also sentenced Ndahani to 20 years imprisonment in each count. However, Magistrate Kiama ordered the sentences imposed on the two poachers to run co-current. This means that the two will remain behind bars each for only 20 years. In addition to such sentence, the magistrate also ordered the confiscation into government properties of the firearms and the government trophies, which are one greater kudu, one elephant and one sable antelope, as well as one piece of lion skin and one piece of ratel honey badger skin. On September 15, 2017 at Kipili Village area within Sikonge District in Tabora Region Kibangula was found in unlawful possession of one rifle and one muzzle loader barrel without license, which raises a reasonable presumption that he used the same to kill wild animals. Such animals, the property of the United Republic of Tanzania, includes one greater kudu valued at 2200 US dollars, which is equivalent to 5,016,280/-and one elephant tusk valued at 15,000 which is equivalent to 34,200,000/-. The prosecution had told the court that Ndahani committed the offences on October 2, 2017 at night hours along Bahi/Dodoma Road, within Bahi District in Dodoma City. It was alleged that the poacher was found without permit from the Director of Wildlife in possession or dealing of government trophies, which are one  piece of lion skin  obtained from one lion valued at 4,500 US dollars, which is equivalent 10,290,000/-. Another government trophy found is one piece of ratel honey badger obtained from one ratel honey budger valued at 300 US dollars, which is equivalent to 630,000/-, such trophies, according to the prosecution, are properties of the United Republic of Tanzania.