PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday blasted the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) on poor mishandling of some bribe allegations, leading to inefficiency in the anti-corruption crusade. Speaking in Dodoma yesterday, the Head of State questioned the corruption watchdog’s failure to gather sufficient evidence to build their cases against corruption perpetrators. Dr Magufuli also wondered as to why PCCB was delaying some cases on pretext of waiting permits from the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) while the law offers the Bureau open window for direct prosecution. He made the remarks in Chamwino District, Dodoma region during the inauguration of  PCCB offices in seven districts including Masasi (Mtwara), Manyoni (Singida), Namtumbo (Ruvuma), Ruangwa (Lindi), Mpwapwa and Chamwino (Dodoma) as well as the Intelligence Unit of the bureau’s headquarters in Dodoma. The president,who has been tough on corruption since assuming the presidency in 2015, commended the performance of the PCCB during the past five years, but warned over a few bad elements that tarnish the bureau’s image. For instance, Dr Magufuli could not hide his dissatisfaction over costs spent on construction of the bureau’s seven district offices, saying the costs were inflated and there was no value for money. The President then instructed the PCCB Director General Brigadier General John Mbungo and the entire management team to make self-evaluation and act accordingly, by even taking into account the unfaithful bureau officials who could have been engaged in corruption acts. Earlier, the Head of State was briefed by the PCCB boss Brigadier General Mbungo that in total, the seven offices had been built at a total cost of 1bn/-,  but, Dr Magufuli, after inspecting the office said the money could have done more than what he saw. “Despite the good job that PCCB has been doing, I'm not impressed with this building. The budget is higher than the final output, there must be something wrong somewhere, the money spent would have built a bigger structure than this,” he said, taking references from new ministerial headquarters that were built at a cost of 1bn/- each at the designated Mtumba government city in Dodoma. Speaking on how the bureau had mishandled the tension during the CCM’s primaries form legislative seats, President Magufuli was of the view that, had PCCB played well in some of the scenarios, then it could have gathered enough evidence against the suspects and ensure all the culprits were taken to account. “One of the aspirants who resides in Kigoma was reported to have bribed people and he was questioned in Dodoma, why didn’t the matter be handled in Kigoma? This is a key question to ask,” he noted. “Also, it was reported that one of the aspirants in Mtera had bribed people and he wasn’t arrested until he arrived in Chamwino and it was said he was holding a birthday party, these are the loopholes that should be plugged,” he insisted. Dr Magufuli was also concerned on PCCB delay to take some of the suspects to court, on ground of waiting for the approval from the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), while they have the power to do so. “The PCCB Act has empowered the bureau to bring the suspect to court directly whenever they have evidence, but I wonder why this section isn’t applied accordingly,” he queried. Moreover, the president played down the proposal of the anti-graft agency on building its district offices in Chato, Geita region, saying that the bureau has a nice office that was built by Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) when Dr Magufuli was the Minister for Works. He warned that the money should be spent on other projects, suggesting that it may build the office in Kongwa District, Dodoma where it is badly needed. “You shouldn’t  make your plans to impress me since I’m coming from Chato,  there is no need to build another office there because it is already there,  this is a misuse of money which isn’t acceptable at all during my administration,” said Dr Magufuli. At the event, Brig Gen Mbungo also requested Dr Magufuli to issue 1bn/- for the construction of the fence of the launched offices, a request that was also challenged by the President, noting that the estimated cost was too higher than the reality on ground. In this case, Dr Magufuli asked the PCCB boss to improve efficiency on the pointed areas of weaknesses for better delivery, basing on ground that the bureau has done a lot for the interest of the country. “PCCB is doing well and I appreciate them so much, they have done a lot ranging from recovering the lost money and increasing accountability, Tanzanians and I would like to see more of this,” he explained. The president then pledged to issue 2bn for the construction of residences of PCCB staff, on instruction that the tender should be issued to other contractors not the ones who worked on the seven offices as their estimations are too high.