THE Court of Appeal has confirmed the life imprisonment sentence imposed on a resident of Iringa Region, Kiwano Kalongole, for raping and sodomizing his seven-year-old niece after luring her to his residence with a pencil. Justices Richard Mziray, Jacobs Mwambegela and Lugano Mwandambo ruled against Kalongole, the appellant, after dismissing an appeal he had lodged in attempt to fault the judgments given by the trial court and High Court on the first appeal. "We find no reasons to meddle with the concurrent findings of the two courts,  which found the appellant guilty as charged. This appeal was filed without any iota of merit. It stands dismissed entirely," they declared. The justices also found no reason why they should interfere with the sentence of life in prison enhanced by the first appellate court from one of a prison term of thirty years imposed by the trial court in respect of the second count of sodomy. During the appeal, the appellant had complained, among others, that the prosecution had not proved the case beyond reasonable doubt against him, because the evidence given by other witnesses apart from that of the victim of rape was hearsay. Among such witnesses include the victim's mother and father as well as the village chairman. Indeed, the justices noted, the three witnesses did not testify to have eye witnessed the appellant raping and sodomizing the victim. "Their role was to tell the trial court what they did after the ordeal and the trial court applied their evidence in that context. We are certain that the trial court properly used their evidence to corroborate the victim's evidence and the first appellate court was quite in the right track to uphold it," they said. The appellant had also complained over failure by the victim to mention time and date of the incident as being fatal. Admittedly, the justices noted, the victim; A child of seven years, did not mention the time and place of the ordeal. "However in view of testimony of (mother)  who testified that she left the victim and (her sister) at home and returned a few moments later only to find the victim been ravished, we do not think the failure to mention time and place was relevant. That failure did not occasion any failure of  justice," they said. Another complaint related to the appellant's conviction on the evidence of bad character. But having gleaned the record of appeal, especially the judgment of the trial court, the justices said they could not be able to find anywhere suggesting that the appellant was convicted on evidence of bad character. "The appellant is casting his net too wide in a bid to save his otherwise sinking boat. This complaint is dismissed as well," they said. It was alleged in the first count that on October 1, 2016 at Wenda area in Iringa Rural District in Iringa Region, the appellant had carnal knowledge of a girl aged seven years. In the second count, it was alleged that on the same date, time and place, the appellant had had carnal knowledge of that girl against the order of nature. He pleaded not guilty to both counts. After a full trial, he was found guilty as charged, convicted and sentenced to 30 years in jail in respect of each count. His first appeal to the High Court made matters worse to the appellant, for the sentence in respect of the second count as was enhanced to life in prison. Undeterred, he decided to cross over to the Court of Appeal for the second bite of appeal. The appellant is the victim's uncle. On October 01, 2016, the appellant's sister and victim's mother, was in the vicinity of her residence looking for relish for perhaps, that afternoon's meal. She had left at home the victim and her sister, a girl aged nine years. When she was still there, the appellant arrived and asked the victim to follow her to his residence to collect a pencil. The victim obeyed and little did she know that her uncle had an ill motive to ravish her. The appellant took the victim to his residence where he raped and sodomized her.