THE government is taking all steps necessary to deal with both local and international cybercrime attacks, thus there is a need for information communication technology (ICT) technicians in the country to take note of this. The assurance was given recently by Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) Director of ICT Application and Services Connie Francis, when opening capacity building training for ICT technicians from public and private sectors on improvement and control of the ICT system. The director noted that through the National Computer Emergency Team (TZ-CERT), the government was prepared for fast response to cases of cyberattacks both locally, regionally and internationally. She explained that the fundamental objective of TZ-CERT was to ensure a high and effective level of network and information in the country and develop a culture of network and information security for the entire community. She noted that 10-15 institutions had reported cases of digital attacks, thus there was a need to be vigilant and report whenever they occurred. However, she declined to name the institutions, but emphasised a need for ICT technicians to report to the relevant authorities any cases or signs of digital attacks for legal action. The director urged participants to form networks that could easily help them report, share and discuss various things affecting their ICT systems and also seek help wherever necessary since it was a national goal to thwart cyber-attacks. The director reminded the technicians that the government had gone full digital in its operations, which was a good step, but came with a lot of challenges, including cyber-attacks. She said while the e-government was expanding, digital attackers could find loopholes for attacks if they are not closely monitored. “We get attacked due to a poor monitoring system and without knowing how the hackers come we do not know how to counterattack,” she added. She called on all ICT technicians in the country to be wary of cyber-attacks that had become a global threat. One of the training participants, Star Faraji, Principal ICT technician Tanesco thanked the government for the programme aimed at empowering ICT technicians. He said digital attacks were like the next world war, hence there was a need for regular capacity building of the technicians on how to deal with it. “Such training helps control cybercrime which has become a global threat and also helps to empower systems at different offices,” he said. Dodoma City Council ICT technicians Nimo Abdi echoed similar sentiments, noting that the training workshop was organised by TCRA through the ICT system security capacity building programme, would help improve the security system in the workplace. “Every organisation has a different system, but through a training workshop like this one, ICT technicians know how systems work and common challenges,” she said.