PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday led high profile leaders to relay condolences to family members of former President Benjamin Mkapa at Masaki in Dar es Salaam, most of them describing the deceased as a personality that was admired not only in Tanzania but also in Africa at large. Dr Magufuli led mourners to pray for the late Mkapa to rest in eternal peace, an eventuality he deserved on the strength of the kind of life he led. Dr Magufuli asked family member to continue praying for him because he had accomplished his mission on earth. During a tour in Masasi last year, the Head of State was quoted as saying that "If it were not for President Mkapa, I would not have become Member of Parliament, minister and may probably not have sought presidential candidacy.” Mr Mkapa, who died at a Dar es Salaam hospital early last Friday, served at the helm of Tanzania’s government from 1995 to 2005, and previously served as a minister, ambassador and journalist. Vice President Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan said that the news of his death shocked Tanzanians and Africans because no one expected that he could go this soon. She said the passing of President Mkapa was a big blow to the nation and Africa because the third phase president was an important pillar when it comes to sensitive issues facing the nation. The VP said that the nation had lost a giant but it was crucial for the people to honour his thoughts and promote the country's development as he envisaged in the development plans he had been instrumental in charting. She said Mr Mkapa’s contributions in various sectors, including politics, economy, diplomacy and social welfare would be fondly remembered. Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohammed Shein described Mkapa as a hard working leader whom he enjoyed working with when he served as vice president of the Union government. He said Mr Mkapa had vast experience because he had an opportunity to work in four different ministries, and thus had a clear understanding on various issues. " I gained a lot from him, the training I received from him helped me to work more efficiently ... in 2003 when he went abroad for medical treatment I led the nation and everything went smoothly," he said. He recalled that during his leadership, Mkapa introduced economic reforms and established a good governance promotion centred ministry which was the first of its kind in Africa. Dr Shein said Mr Mkapa put in place systems that helped to boost revenue collections, noting that when he assumed office, revenue collection was 1.7bn/- per month but by the time he left in 2005, monthly collection had increased to between 3bn/- and 4bn/-. The Executive Director of Mwalimu Nyerere Foundation, Mr Joseph Butiku said that Mr Mkapa was hard working and a man of integrity. He said that when the first phase president Julius Nyerere was looking for a person who could vie for the presidency, they recommended Mkapa because was more honest than other would-be aspirants. "We nicknamed him "Mr Clean" and therefore campaigned for the high office asclean person... he was cool and intelligent," Mr Butiku said, adding that he was press secretary to President Nyerere and he admired him due to his good work. Speaking at the residence of the deceased in Dar es Salaam on Friday, fourth phase president Jakaya Kikwete said Mr Mkapa’s demise was a huge shock for everyone. “The country has lost a great leader who worked diligently for the interests of the country, all we can do now is to pray for the strength of his family, as well as honouring all the good things he did for our country,” he added.