OUR National Heroes Day for the year 2020 is around the corner. This day is traditionally marked on every July 25, to honour soldiers who fought for our country. Let me begin by wishing my reader an early Happy National Heroes Day! The day is special indeed. It brings great memories of the past. As it approaches, we appreciate it as a privilege for every Tanzanian to honour the extraordinary heroism of countless fellow Tanzanians from across this peaceful country who have faced seemingly insurmountable odds in defence of this nation and the values that it stands for today. What a great occasion. Due to unavoidable circumstances, there will be no gatherings, as State House has advised, but the same has insisted that, in prayers and appreciation, we should not just commemorate their sacrifices and remember their exploits, but more importantly, we should remember to emulate their selflessness and to live up to their example as we go about our daily lives. JPM says, let us protect our peace. This is important. Let me encourage fellow Tanzanians to ensure that they set aside time and space for this day. More importantly, I call on them to commemorate this day from a different angle too. This unique approach is that hero’s day should not be about the past. It should be about the present and the future. In my view, hero’s day is for remembering those who are no longer with us and for the people who are still in this life. To use the words of Felix Adler 1851-1933, a German American professor of political and social ethics, those who kindles a great light in the world, who sets up blazing torches in the dark streets of life for men to see by. As I strongly highlight the need to know that we also have living heroes in our midst, I do not intend to forget the departed by saying all is history, water under the bridge, not at all. I have something in my mind worthy to be reflected upon. My sole intention is to show that as we go along life and strive for nationbuilding, it is very important that things heroes did in the past can be seen in the great things some few people are doing today, some of which are not only unique, but some should be improved or corrected along the way. I am thinking of faithful citizens really intent on making Tanzania a better place for all people. I am broadly thinking of men and women, who have remained faithful, sometimes in difficult circumstances, standing as champions, persona, fighters and defenders of this country. I am thinking of those people who have met the requirements of what an English proverb says - a hero is a man who is afraid to run away. Joseph John Campbell (1904 -1987), an American professor of literature whose work covers many aspects of the human experience would call such a person not only a hero, but someone who has given his or her life to something bigger than oneself. These people are not only those of the past, but those amongst us, whom we see, hear and have not succumbed to any sort of pressure, be it from within or outside. Surprisingly, like us, they are ordinary individuals, who as Christopher D’Olier Reeve (1952-2004), an American actor, writer and director would say, these ordinary people find the strength to persevere and endure in spite of overwhelming obstacles. Today, let us honour ordinary Tanzanians who, despite the challenges that come their way, continue to work for the well-being of their families and the nation at large. Let us honour them, especially those, be it in rural set ups of Musumba, Mugweli and Mubinyange villages in north-western Tanzania or Ipagala, Ilazo and Msalato in central Tanzania, who are faithfully working for the betterment of their communities and the advancement of our nation. For me, these are our everyday heroes that we need our youth to emulate and look up to. Yes, people who are courageous, bold, actionoriented, energetic, and strong-willed. Those who genuinely want to make a difference for Tanzania. These deserve recognition because they are not only heroes but have proved to be citizens’ lifeline during storms - such as those of grand corruption, which in the past, seemed to never end. These are fellow Tanzanians; some in the civil service who get their jobs accomplished without fuss or fanfare and routinely do it with high quality. They are in our midst, and the 5th government under the leadership of John Joseph Pombe Magufuli continues to unveil them regularly. They need credit. In my mind, I am noting heroes whom, among many things, have now introduced new mining laws to increase government power and revenue, made growth of the mining sector and revenue collections trend impressively during five years of the first term of President John Magufuli. They too have made it possible for various measures to be adopted to improve the industry. These are heroes that deserve a toast. All these are heroes who immensely contributed to making the World Bank to categorize Tanzania as a lower-middle income country. What they did was simply to help make economic reforms, including making consistent plans and taking hard decisions aimed at improving the country’s economic development. These heroes are not the departed, but the living. For Dan Simmons, a 72 year old American science fiction and horror writer once said, you want to be one of these rare human beings who make history, rather than merely watch it flow around them like water around a rock. In fact they are living, but we should not forget what they did, especially in the past five years, though without bloodshed, but in my view, they have won on the battlefield within five arduous years of a bitter and hard economic war struggle. So let me reiterate, we have heroes in our midst. People whose heroism is made visible by being hallmarks of reliability, ready and willing to go an extra mile wherever they serve in order to ensure that our nation is built and continues to thrive. Finally, let me boldly conclude by saying that after being drained of our essence, our institutions undermined, and our extraordinary possibilities wiped out, hope in terms of citizens learning new ways after being taught, and for a long time, to have an inferiority complex, to tremble, kneel, and despair, is being brought back in the public square, and by the same living heroes. I wish to encourage them to keep moving, keep their integrity high and stand with Job, a wealthy, blameless, and upright man living in a biblical land called Uz, always careful to avoid doing evil, who once said; for there is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its shoots will not cease. I trust our living heroes will continue, as John Gardner 1933 –1982, an American Novelist strongly counsel, to see values beyond what’s possible. That’s the nature of a hero. It kills him, of course, ultimately. But it makes the whole struggle of humanity worthwhile. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo. co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail. com Mobile: 0767 233 997