AS technology in the country advances, entrepreneurs are encouraged to use the online platform as it helps penetrate a wider market range. Data portal indicate that there were 14.72 million internet users in the country by January this year; an increase of 428 thousand or three per cent from 2019. Also, internet penetration stands at 25 per cent in January, with 4.50 million social media, raising the number by 13 per cent compared to that of April 2019. Being in the online market for over two years, the Founder and President of Mama Mia's Soko, which is an online market place, Ms Dorice Malle has invited vendors of all sorts to join the online business, as it has proven to be profitable. “Among other things, we register vendors of all sorts at the level they are, including startup businesses. We introduce them to the online market and help nurture them so that they can grow and produce reliable and quality products,” she commented. Vendors have a vast opportunity to promote the products and services they offer to the online network business, she said, as she called on them to join and market their products in the online platform. She said the online market provides opportunities to all types of vendors, including food produce, cosmetics and clothes, especially for local manufactures; and through Mama Mia’s Soko they are assisted in formalizing their business. She added that Mama Mia’s Soko creates awareness to all its vendors on the importance of formalizing their businesses and paying their taxes so as to have reliable and internationally recognized businesses that are also identified by the respective authorities in the country. Ms Malle further said that the system creates generational income from daily expenditures by consuming and recommending others to consume through the online network platform, which has a compensation plan. Apart from having vendors as members, the platform also has members who seek for services alone as well as those who want to benefit from the products they consume through the platform by getting commission, she elaborated further. She revealed that the platform has launched a plan that will guarantee a registered member the gift of a car after attaining a certain level in the online network. She mentioned among the cars that are included in the plan as gifts to include Renault Kid and Koleos worth over 100m/-. She accentuated that Mama Mia’s Soko is a consumer network with an off and online market offering a vast range of products and services.