THE World Bank’s declaration that classified Tanzania as a lower middle-income economy on Wednesday, has spurred a wave of enthusiasm, praises and encouragement across the country. In a celebration mode, the government Chief Spokesman, Dr Hassan Abbasi, briefed the media on ten key factors that propelled the country to the new status. Since 1986, when the East African country embarked on economic reforms, it embarked on formulating a new economic and social development vision— 2025. Among other things, the vision seeks to enable the country become a middle-income country, consolidate patriotism, nationalism and strengthen national cohesion. The international financial institution also charged with classifying economies issued its update, making Tanzania and Kenya as only East African countries categorised as lower middle-income economies. Dr Abbasi attributed the new achievements to undisputed peace and tranquility, consistent plans and solid commitment to implement the plans. “Since Mwalimu Julius Nyerere’s leadership through President John Magufuli, our leaders have set and implemented a number of strategies that have propelled our country to attain this latest feat,” he said. Unfortunately, Dr Abbasi said, some individuals have been undermining the government’s efforts throughout. Dr Abbasi, who is also the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, said it was unfortunate that some critics have been branding President John Magufuli an authoritarian, while in actual fact, he is working tirelessly for the good of the nation. He cited leadership ethics, bold decision making and investing in self-reliance as having facilitated the increase in the nation’s per capita gross national income. Dr Abbasi said misdeeds like gross misuse of public funds, corruption, protests and economic sabotage had limited the country’s speed towards attaining middle-income status. “However, it is under bold leadership that Tanzania has been elevated by the World Bank to the new status ... for this, we need to celebrate,” he said, adding that the desire to cut down donor dependency and robust tax collection measures had led to a surge in revenue from 850bn/- to an average of 1.3trn/- a month. Other factors, according to Dr Abbasi, include instilling discipline in public spending, such as curbing foreign trips, medical referrals abroad and conference ex penses. Initially, he said only a few had money in the society but the government has been able to plug loopholes that created a gap between the haves and the havenots. “We have also invested much in human development by improving access to social services, education, water, transportation, health and electricity. The government has implemented strategic projects that are helping create more jobs ... they include the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project and the central line Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), which have employed more than 10,000 Tanzanians,” he noted. President John Magufuli, meanwhile welcomed the muchsought economic feat by making a renewed call for peace, tranq uility and hard work. In his message to the nation that was delivered by the Government Chief Spokesperson Dr Abbasi, the Head of State called on the public to sustain the tempo of hard work and support to his administration. According to Dr Abbasi, the President attributed the success to the good foundation laid by his predecessors. Dr Abbasi explained that the father of the nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and his successors, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, Benjamin William Mkapa, and Dr Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete laid solid foundations for peace and tranq uility in the country, and were keys for the latest success. The Government Chief Spokesperson underscored the need for the general public to change their mindset and forget intolerable practices that could only hold back the country’s development mission.