THE Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries has warned that the country may face a shortage of white meat in the next 10 years if proper measures to address demand are not implemented. The ministry said the country might face a shortage of up to 2.0 million tonnes a year if supply of white meat. The demand opened an opportunity door to further investment in the area. Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Director of Production and Marketing (Livestock), Dr Felix Nandonde, said the government had noticed an increase in demand and had started doing something about it. "Our researches have shown that if we do not seriously invest in this area by now, there will be a shortage of 2 million tonnes of white meat annually as from 2031. Our 2017-2021 programme is to see that demand for white meat which has been increasing with the growth of the country’s population are being met,” Dr Nandonde said, while closing two-day training on modern chicken rearing in Mkuranga, Coast Region, last week. The director said the ministry’s projects, such as Tanzania Livestock Sector Master Plan (TLMP) geared towards ensuring the country's needs for white meat were being met ahead of demand. The projects apart from increased supply also aim at helping farmers to improve their incomes and contribute to the nation's income through TLMP. Modern chicken rearing projects are part of TLMP implemented in all regions in the country with partnership with the private sector. Dr Nandonde said at the closing of two-day training on modern chicken rearing which brought together 30 entrepreneur groups that so far modern chicken rearing projects had proved success. Through the programme, farmers are being provided with best chicken seeds, modern chicken rearing techniques while vaccines for prevention and treatment of various chicken diseases are made affordable and easily accessible to farmers. Similar training has also been conducted to youth groups in Dodoma, Simiyu, Lindi, Mtwara and Dar es Salaam regions. “In all the regions, youth groups were also provided with best chicken seeds for free. Preparations to reach Iringa Region have been made,” he revealed. He explained that the ministry through Tanzania Vaccines Institute (TVI) and Tanzania Veterinary Laboratory Agency (TVLA) had started producing a vaccine for Newcastle disease, which was leading to a high number of deaths of chickens in the country. Before that, vaccines for the disease were bought from outside the country. According to Dr Nandonde, the price of a single dose of the vaccine has dropped from 3,000/-to 500/-since it started being manufactured locally. Mkuranga District Commissioner (DC), Philberto Sanga thanked the government through the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries for support to ensure that farmers in the district were empowered to conduct their activities in a more productive way and see positive changes economically and socially. Director for Research, Training and Extension from the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, Dr Angello Mwilawa, urged training participants to use the techniques they had received for better results. During the event, 1,200 chicks were given to entrepreneurs who participated in a training workshop which was facilitated by Tanzania Livestock Training Agency (LITA).