AS part of efforts to improve living standards in Kilosa district, Morogoro region, President John Magufuli has instructed for establishment of an economic corridor that would unlock development opportunities, including business and employment. Dr Magufuli gave the instructions on Monday at the event of laying down a foundation stone for the construction of four Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) tunnels and a flyover, crossing Kilosa district to Makutupora with a total length of 2.7 kilometres. The longest tunnel with a 1.1 kilometres length. “The SGR infrastructures being constructed here are meant to stimulate the economy in Kilosa district and Morogoro region at large, it’s a high time for establishment of an economic corridor here for the benefit of all people as well as the country at large,” said President Magufuli. Sectors in target include tourism, hospitality, trade and agriculture. The main economic activities in the district include farming, livestock keeping and off farm activities such as formal employment and trading of marketable agricultural products. The head of state instructed the district and regional authority to start preparations for the move that would also create many employment opportunities and change the view of Kilosa district. “Plans are afoot to construct the 78 kilometres of road at tarmac level from Kilosa to Mikumi, where there is a national park, hence facilitating movement of tourists into the district for leisure and business tour,” he said. “Those who want to build hotels and other hospitality services should begin now, all these infrastructures are going to put the Kilosa district into its deserving position, and the government would continue to improve services here,” he added. Expounding further, President Magufuli said; “If people will come to invest then more guests will be coming and leave their money here out of services that they are receiving. So it’s a high time to revive the economy of Kilosa which is among the oldest districts in the country”. Apart from construction of infrastructures in Kilosa, the government has also taken a number of initiatives including bringing back to surrounding villagers the undeveloped farms that were possessed by few individuals for a long time. So far, President Magufuli has revoked ownership of 49 farms and some 11 more that are in the pipeline. Upon completion of the process, the farms are meant to promote living standards of the poor villagers, who will be able to produce for domestic consumption and commercial purpose. “The move would also settle the long standing land disputes between farmers and pastoralists hence guaranteeing peace and stability that are essential for development,” noted the President at a wellattended rally. For his part, the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development Mr William Lukuvi assured the residents that his ministry is well positioned to end all land disputes in Kilosa district for better development. “This is among issues that we have been dealing with in the ministry, I would like to assure you all that we shall do the needful in accordance with the directives of President Magufuli to free Kilosa district and the entire Morogoro region from land disputes,” he explained. His remarks were seconded by the Morogoro Regional Commissioner Mr Loatha Ole Sanare, insisting that they would continue to work for the greater interest of the residents in their areas of administration. “We are continuing to address challenges that people are facing here including land disputes, all the guidelines and directives that have been issued today will be taken into consideration, this region should be uplifted economically,” he explained.