NMB Bank has pledged to continue cooperating with the government and communities in addressing development challenges in education, health and other sectors. The pledge was made at Pongwe Secondary School in Tanga City by Acting Chief Finance Officer Benedicto Baragomwa during a handover of 250 desks and 352 iron roofing materials worth 36m/- that would be distributed to seven secondary schools in the city. He said the donation that was made after a request made by Minister for Health, Community Development, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu was part of NMB Bank’s contribution to society under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy which sought to give back part of its profits to help solve pertinent development problems. Mr Baragomwa said the bank had contributed to solving development problems under its CSR policy to a tune of 4.0bn/- in the past four years, which included over 31,000 desks and 1,150 computers to schools. He added that NMB had allocated one per cent of its profit for CSR activities to support government and community development efforts spearheaded by President John Magufuli. “Education and health are among our priorities considered under our CSR policy and we would continue helping address development challenges,” Mr Baragomwa said, adding that the bank’s existence depended on people. The desks and iron roofing materials will be distributed to Japan, Galanos, Chongolleani, Nguvumali and Pongwe (50 desks each). The iron roofing sheets will be distributed to Mikanjuni (152) and Kirare (200). “My request was 400 desks for the seven schools, but I am glad that at least I have something to reduce the problem,” Ms Mwalimu said, when receiving the desks. She called on other stakeholders to support development because it was obvious that the government couldn’t do it alone. She appealed to NMB to help children build financial management skills, including developing a savings culture. She made a special appeal to the bank to go through all schools to mobilise schoolchildren to register for their Mtoto and Chipukizi accounts. Tanga District Commissioner Thobias Mwilapwa urged schoolchildren to study hard to move forward and contribute to improving a learning environment.