CORDIAL relations between Tanzania and China have yielded great achievements, especially in education, with many Zanzibar students availed with studying opportunities in the world’s second economy. Education and Vocational Training Minister, Riziki Pembe Juma issued the statement here over the weekend at the reception of students who have successfully completed their higher education studies in the Asian nation. She said the Zanzibar revolutionary government is doing everything possible to ensure that all the education opportunities from other countries are utilised exhaustively to create the dearly needed professionals for the country’s social and economic development. The minister commended the returning students for preserving their culture and promoting Kiswahili during their entire stay in China for studies. Minister Pembe also appreciated the graduates’ tolerance to ensure they accomplish their educational pursuit despite the difficult period that they went through during the struggles against the deadly Coronavirus. Her deputy, Mr Simai Mohammed Said implored all the graduates to apply creativity in their respective areas of studies to help majority of Zanzibaris in their struggles against unemployment. The ministry’s Deputy Permanent Secretary, Administration and Operations, Abdullah Mzee Abdullah commended all the students, describing them as good ambassadors during their study period and promoting the good image of Tanzania. Zanzibar Higher Education Loans Board Director, Iddi Khamis Haji said the patriotism and efforts by students who secure chances to study abroad were helping them to perform better academically than students from other countries. Speaking on behalf of the students’ parents, Mussa Saleh Mihambo thanked the government for establishing and funding the loan board, which has been cooperating with parents during the entire period of studies in China. One of the retuning students, Nusura Khamis Zuli commended the government and the loan board for their close support, especially during the trying period of Coronavirus. A total of 11 graduates have returned after completing their undergraduate studies in information and communication.