FORMER Foreign Affairs Minister Mr Benard Membe, who was fired from the ruling CCM over gross violation of the party’s ethics and constitution yesterday picked forms to run for the presidency through ACTWazalendo. He picked forms for the highest office just a few days after decamping to the six-year old opposition party. The event took place at the party’s headquarters in Dar es Salaam. The embattled politician publicly admitted that it was impossible to unseat the oldest ruling party without joining forces with other parties. Mr Membe’s call for a coalition to defeat CCM whose flagbearer is President John Magufuli, comes at a time when the party and the government have carried out massive reforms --with political pundits predicting an easy ride for the ruling party. In the previous general election held in 2015, a number of opposition parties formed an alliance, and yet could not defeat the ruling party. In that election, the opposition joined forces and nominated former Prime Minister Edward Lowassa to vie for the presidency. Despite getting support from political old hands, including a number of regional chairpersons, former Cabinet ministers and senior cadres who defected to the opposition parties, Mr Lowassa garnered only 39 per cent of all valid votes against 58 per cent collected by Dr Magufuli. Mr Membe was among cadres who were penalized by CCM’s Central Committee in February this year over gross misconducts, contravening party’s procedures and indiscipline. Last week, the party, through National Executive Committee (NEC), endorsed the decision of the Central Committee to fire Mr Membe. The former minister was implicated in leaked audio clips that exposed covert conversations with other party members in which they appeared to conspire against the CCM chairman, President Magufuli and the party. Mr Membe was one of the presidential hopefuls within CCM in 2015 in which he made the top five. Since his bid for the presidency botched, the former MP for Mtama constituency appeared to be at loggerheads with his party. Despite the impressive performance recorded by President John Magufuli’s administration which even enabled the country to attain middle income status five years ahead of the 2025 vision, earning the East African nation accolades across the globe, Mr Membe distinguished himself as a perennial critic of the fifth phase administration. The decision to strip Mr Membe of his party membership was reached after following the trend of his behavior since 2014. According to the CC, Membe has been committing ethical violations since 2014 and received various warnings that intended to give him a chance to change his behavior, which, according to them, he spurned.