JUNIOR golfers have opportunity to showcase their skills when Lugalo Club hosts Tanzania Junior Golf Open Championship very soon. The national championship is scheduled to bright Tanzania Peoples Defense Forces (TPDF), Lugalo golf club course of Dar es Salaam this month, but its official date will be announced soon. The two-day competition is organised by the club collaboration with Tanzania Golf Union (TGU). The club’s chairman, Michael Luwongo said in Dar es Salaam this week that preparation for the two-day event is on a top gear and golfers have been training hard for it. Luwongo said that the Junior Open is among the tournaments in the club’s calendar after the government allowed sports activities to resume after the end of three-month hiatus. The chairman stressed that, since it is confirmed they will extend invitation to the entries from neighbouring countries. However, Luwongo urged sponsors to come forward and support young players seeking to participate in the event as a way to motivate them. “We are still looking for a support from sponsors, we welcome companies, institutions and well-wishers to come forward and support the event,” he added. He said that it is worth to support junior players which his club has groomed for many years through the Junior Level Development Programme. He said the national level prestigious is very vital to the youth as it gives them a platform to compete and showcase their skills. “We see that we have this obligation to give them a big platform apart through the club’s events, it is so important for their development, we want them to be happy and focus on sports and competition in a better way,” he added. Luwongo insures everyone that Lugalo club is the best and safe place to be at the moment when Covid-19 prevention measures are strictly observed to make everyone safe from it. Adding, the TGU competition secretary, Enock Magile said Lugalo club is committed to host the tournament that will see youth from different clubs take part in the 36-hole tournament. “It’s true that after the end of Covid-19 crisis, the junior competition will open the national level competitions, we welcome all of them to come and take part in it,” said Magile. Adding, Lugalo club’s captain Japhet Masai said the course is in a good condition and very ready to host the event. He said for over three months that they cancelled all activities, green keeper and other workers were busy upgrading the course just to make it ideal for the tournament.