INSPECTOR General of Police (IGP), Simon Sirro has warned youth against being hired to engage in chaos and crime for anyone’s political interest ahead of the General Election. IGP Sirro issued the warning, while launching Kisaki Police post built at 56m/-in Morogoro District Council, recently adding that such activities endanger country's peace. The police post was constructed at the area upon President John Magufuli's directive he issued last year, while speaking to the residents of Kisaki Ward.  At that time, the President was heading to lay a foundation stone for the construction of the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHP), that would produce 2,115MW. In the course, Dr Magufuli briefly stopped to hear from the residents, where they asked for a Police Post to address insecurity in the area.  In response, the President on the spot organised an impromptu fundraising for the construction of the post, where he donated to them 5m/-. However, IGP Sirro noted that despite any citizen enjoying the privilege of free participation in elections, some politicians have been misusing the clause to hire youth to indulge in chaos for their own political mileage. Instead, he said the government would not bear with anyone, who would dare to violate the country's laws. “We are approaching elections period, which has many issues, especially the youth, I ask you not to participate in acts which are against the law,” IGP Sirro urged. On the other hand, he directed police officers to effectively enforce laws, while observing fairness and being friendly to the people of Kisaki and all Tanzanians. “This police post shouldn’t be a catalyst for a police-residents tug of war, but rather be part of bringing fairness as per the laws of this land,” he stated. On his part, Morogoro Regional Police Commander (RPC), Wilbroad Mutafungwa said construction of the police post would help in fighting crimes at the area. Commander Mutafungwa also noted that since the JNHP was constructed in the area, the police post would strengthen security at its premises. Commenting, Morogoro District Executive Director (DED), Rehema Bwasi asked the IGP to consider making the district a Police Special Zone in order to strengthen the security in the environs.