IN the wake of reduced income tax to salaried workers effective this month, Tanzania is bracing to see more spending on goods and services, thus boosting the country’s economy, economists have argued. The government has, in this financial year, cut pay-as-youearn (PAYE) to employees, who would save between 6,570/-and 51,600/-per month in payroll taxes, depending on the amount of salary. During the national budget meetings, the Parliament passed the 2020 Finance Act, which among other things, amended the income tax structure to provide relief to workers. The amendment included the adjustment of the income tax brackets and increased the minimum threshold for employment income not liable to tax from 170,000/-to 270,000/-per month. That means those receiving 270,000/-were charged 6,570/-, but will now be exempted from taxation. An employee with a monthly salary of 520,000/-will save 20,880/-and those earning 760,000/-will get a relief of 33,800/- in the pay-as-you-earn stakes. The maximum monthly relief is 51,600/-for a person with a monthly salary of 1m/-and above. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday over the reduction, some economic sector specialists volunteered their viewpoints. Mzumbe University economics Prof Prosper Ngowi said the reduction in income tax means increasing more liquidity. “There will be more money in the circulation because this is no different from increasing salaries. Therefore, it will stimulate the country’s economy more,” Prof Ngowi stated. He said cutting income tax to workers was one of the ways of lifting the economy and boost small trade because people will spend more on buying goods. Following the impact of Covid- 19 to employees’ income, the income tax relief will bridge the gaps caused by the pandemic, he added. Dr Ellinami Minja, a senior lecturer of economics at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), pointed out that the move will have multiple effects to workers, who would be able to spend on things that they were initially not able to do so. He argued that in economics, there is what they call ‘the marginal propensity to consume’ (MPC), which is defined as the proportion of an aggregate raise in pay that a consumer spends on the consumption of goods and services, as opposed to saving it. Dr Minja argued that percentage- wise, low-income earners spend more than those with high income. “Therefore, giving more money to workers with low income means you increase more spending on goods and services, and this will stimulate production,” he stated. The Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) welcomed the government’s decision to slash the PAYE. TUCTA’s president Tumaini Nyamhokya commended the government, saying the move would ease the burden on workers.