AS Roma joined Tanzanian sports associations, football clubs to mourn the sudden demise of the former president, Benjamin Mkapa, who passed away on Thursday late night. Via their tweet, AS Roma have expressed their deep condolences, stating that “we have received with sadness the news of the death of the former third term President of Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa. AS Roma extend its condolences to his family, relatives, friends and the Nation of Tanzania as a whole.” In Tanzania, the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA), Communication Officer Atif Salim, told “Daily News on Saturday” that the association has a lot to remember from him as it was on his term when TCA became an associate member in the International Cricket Council (ICC). “It is with the humble acceptance of the Almighty we received the news of the passing away of our former President His Excellency Benjamin Willam Mkapa who served the nation as the President from 1995-2005.” “His contribution to the growth of our country can never be forgotten. It was under his presidency that TCA became an associate member of the ICC in 2001. He contributed massively in bringing up new sports and developing many other sporting activities and we were lucky that Cricket was one of them.” “Our condolences go out to the Friends, family and to all Tanzanians. At TCA we are touched by this loss and we pray the departed soul to rest in peace. We will miss him.” Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC have also conveyed their deep condolences for the loss of the third phase President of Tanzania, Late Benjamin Mkapa wishing him to rest peacefully. Where Azam FC in their Instagram account asserted that, “the Late President Mkapa will be remembered for many things in the sports world, including the gift of the National Stadium.” “We join the athletes and all Tanzanians in general to offer condolences to family, relatives and friends, and pray to God to give them the heart of patience and perseverance in this difficult time.” Apart from sports association and clubs, artistes and musicians had a chance to use their social media accounts to express their deep sorrow regarding the loss of the late President Mkapa and they are Naseeb Abdul (Diamond Platinumz), Khamis Mwinjuma (Mwana FA) and Faustina Mfinanga (Nandy).