SIMBA SC striker Meddie Kagere said then timely paid salaries and bonuses are among the contributing factors which make players to give it all in their respective teams. Kagere, who was not featured in his side's 2-0 win over Azam FC on Wednesday, is set to lead Simba assault against Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara tomorrow. After Ndanda match, the champions will fly to Ruangwa, Lindi to faceoff Namungo FC at Majaliwa Stadium on Wednesday where they will also be presented their top flight league trophy of the season. However, the Rwandan hit man who is on the right track to defend his golden boot at the end of the season has so far scored 19 goals in the unfolding Mainland Premier League. "When money is available, there is always a big possibility for the club to do well. For example, whenever we go to play very far, we always take a flight but there are other teams in the league which travel long distances on road. "That alone make players to have fatigue before the match has been played because they think about the long trip to and from their intended destination," he said. He added that he always put God first in his responsibilities that is why he emerged the top goal scorer in his first season of playing in the country and until know, he is still leading the scoring chart. "People say I am aged but I don't care about what they say provided I am able to do my job well and help my team to succeed. If you have the ability to play, then age does not matter," he said. Furthermore, Kagere said those who try to discourage him are the ones who make him stronger to continue working hard in his football profession. "I love my job and I have another one year to play for Simba which is the club I like. I know that Simba fans like me and I like them too," said Kagere who is a father of four children. He also disclosed that another reason which played a big role in Simba undisputed champions now and then is the fact that they have quality players capable to achieve big dreams.