FORMER President Benjamin Mkapa’s government is credited to have sustained and increased pace of major economic reforms that were initiated in the late 1980’s to transform Tanzania from a socialist to a market economy. The reforms that led to a strong economic growth and poverty reduction deepened in the late 1990’s under former President Mkapa’s third phase government. Economic growth increased steadily from 1.8 per cent on average between 1991 and 1995 to 4.0 per cent between 1996 and 2000 and then to 7.0 per cent between 2001 and 2005, according to IMF statistics. Similarly, inflation was brought down from an average of 26.9 per cent to 12.5 per cent and then to 4.5 per cent over the same time periods, thanks to improved budgetary management procedures and operation of a cash budget system. The cash budget ensured that the government could only spend up to the equivalent of estimated revenue, plus any grants, for any given month. Building prudent fiscal management was one of key objectives of the government under President Mkapa. During this period, the structural and institutional reforms were accelerated that resulted to restoring donor relations. According to the findings on Tanzania’s Economic Reforms and Lessons Learned an integrated financial management system was introduced to foster coordination and collaboration among various ministries and the treasuries, monitor expenditures, and enhance transparency in budget management. To enhance revenue and address the problem of massive exemption and tax evasion, the government rationalized the tax system and improved tax administration through the establishment of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) which began operations in 1996. The formation of a semiautonomous revenue authority led to the introduction of value added tax to replace the cumbersome sales tax and broaden the tax base, and to minimize revenue leakage. The choice of a revenue authority model aimed partly to limit direct political interference by the Ministry of Finance and partly to free the tax administration from the constraints of the civil service system. This was considered to be essential for several reasons of which the most important were to attract and retain quality staff by paying rates above the civil service regulations, and to make dismissals easier. Moreover, the tax administration’s senior management and many tax officers were replaced. It was assumed that these steps would provide incentives for greater job motivation and less corruption. The reform appeared, however, to be a success in TRA’s first year of existence. Reported revenue increased from 11 per cent of GDP in 1995–1996 to more than 12 per cent in 1996– 1997. Corruption seemed to be declining too because it was President Mkapa who appointed a Presidential Commission of Inquiry against Corruption led by Judge Joseph Warioba to address corruption and governance- related issues. The commission was mandated to examining the state of corruption, identifying avenues and loopholes, establishing its causes and recommending ways of curbing it. Focus on wage incentives, control, recruitment and steps to reduce political interference. Furthermore, the government eliminated sources of revenue differential on import tax rates between the mainland and Zanzibar, limited discretionary exemptions, and closed owneroperated bonded warehouses. In addition the government instituted legislative changes to allow prosecution of proven tax evaders. During this period under review the GDP growth rate reached 6.3 percent in 2002, up from 3.6 percent in 1995, and growth in per capita GDP accelerated to 4.2 percent in 2002. As incomes improved, the number of households below the poverty line declined marginally from 38.6 percent in 1991-1992 to 35.7 in 2000-01. The balance of payments improved significantly, largely because of the resumption of large donor inflows and export earnings particularly from nontraditional exports such as gold, gemstones and fish products. Tanzania’s sustained commitment to economic reforms triggered its eligibility for debt relief under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative in April 2000, making it one of the first countries to reach the completion point and to benefit from irrevocable and substantial debt reduction. Debt reduction in turn paved the way for additional donor inflows. The additional resources, including from the HIPC debt reduction, allowed the government to increase budgetary expenditure allocations to social sectors and other priority sectors, such as rural roads, the judiciary, and HIV/ AIDS-related activities. This has led to visible improvements in public service delivery, in particular education and health. The overall gross foreign reserves rose from the equivalent of 1.6 months of imports at the end of December 1995 to more than six months of imports at the end of December 2002. Also in Mkapa’s administration, about two-thirds of earmarked public enterprises were divested where in the area of public utilities electricity – TANESCO was placed under the management contracts while Dar es Salaam’s water supply infrastructure were leased from the state-owned Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA) to City Water Services Ltd. (CWS), a joint venture between British, German and Tanzanian companies. The government accelerated civil service and pay reform with the objective of enhancing accountability, transparency, and efficiency.