AS the Mainland Premier League season heads to a climax, there is a big possibility that the 26- goal record penned by Mohamed Hussein (Mmachinga) might stay unbroken this season. With four matches remaining, it forces the leading scorer, Meddie Kagere, who has so far netted 19 goals, to score a brace at least in every match to reach or break it. The former Young Africans stamped the record in 1994 which has not yet been broken by both domestic and foreign based players who parade in the top flight league. If no one manages to break it this season, then next season his record will remain unbroken for 27 years. By looking at 26 goals, many people out there have a quick belief that the number is small but to be honest, scoring goals is an art hence it is not as easy as you may think especially in a competitive league. However, some people have now made an argumentation that Mmachinga was able to net more goals as the league by then had only 16 teams contrary to this period whereby the number of contesting teams has jumped to 20-teams even though procedures to trim the teams again to 16 in the upcoming season are underway. The good thing though is that the yet to be erased record was set by a Tanzanian player meaning that if it was a foreign based player, many unanswered questions could have surfaced concerning what is wrong with the homemade players in terms of putting balls behind nets. Another fact about Mmachinga’s record is all the 26 goals he scored, none of them was converted through a penalty spot meaning that he netted them via ordinary scoring methods other than penalties. However, what has been seen recently is that foreign strikers are taking the lead on the scoring chart as evidenced by Rwandan striker Meddie Kagere who is leading the marathon for the top goal scorer of the season. He has so far pumped in 19 goals even though he has been silent in a couple of matches played by Simba, he still has a big chance to add some goals to his tally before the end of the season. With four matches, Kagere can do it if he manages triple hat-tricks, something we see very hard to achieve, though it can be done. Last season, Kagere scooped the top scoring award after netting 23 goals and is on the right track to defend the golden boot for successive seasons with four matches to play before farewell the current football term. Other foreign based players who tried but failed to break Mmachinga’s record include Emmanuel Okwi and Amis Tambwe with the latter’s record being 21 goals. The influx of young domestic good scorers like Yusuph Mhilu for Kagera Sugar gives hope that in upcoming seasons, Tanzanians will again be floating on top of the scoring chart and do away with the dependency on imported net bursters. In his recent interview, Mhilu made it clear that his target this season is to score 20 plus goals a feat he can easily achieve if he continues to be given playing time and be sharp on the target. However, after limping off on Tuesday in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) match against Young Africans due to injury, that can be a setback for him to implement the set up objective unless he gets well soon ahead of the upcoming league matches. Apart from Mhilu, the likes of Miraji Athumani for Simba is also another indicator that soon, the top flight league will have a good number of vibrant young scorers who have more years to play in comparison with players like Kagere and John Bocco whose football careers are slowly fading away. Athumani who spent most of the season off the pitch due to injury is now back on the battlefield and has been featured in recent league games played by his side under the tutelage of Belgian coach Sven Vandenbroeck. These are just a few of many domestic players who have a big future ahead of them to score as many goals as possible for their respective teams. It is therefore not a hidden thing that Tanzania being a sport loving country has a lot of talented youths who can do remarkable things on the global map only if they are trusted and given a chance to shine. It is unfortunate that the culture of believing that imported things are better than those found domestically continue to be embraced as such, until we erase that negative mindset is when the potential of these homemade players will be cherished. With the recent declaration by the government that it will start to fully be engaged in sports, everybody is waiting to see the new dawn in this most loved sector of entertainment.