LAST week, the media was dominated by news of aspiring candidates expressing their interest (kutia nia) in being nominated by the respective political parties in the country, to contest for positions of representative, in the forthcoming general election. Political party caucuses have done their job of voting for their preferred candidate, but the battle is yet to be conclusive since there are higher organs which will have a final say as to who is to be presented to the voters. Meanwhile, in Kilimanjaro Region, the police have impounded a large haul of marijuana, a whole 379kg of it, stuffed in 15 bags. The story about this major feat against the illicit drug trade is to be found on page 3 of the Custodian of July 18. It is entitled: “Police impound 379 kgs of marijuana”, with the correspondent telling us that: “On July 16 this year, police officers ‘arrested’ a Toyota Hiace with registration number xxxx loaded with 15 sacks of marijuana at Kilema Road along the Arusha-Dar es Salaam Highway.” . You will agree with me that you do not arrest a vehicle, yes? For “to arrest” is defined in my dictionary, as: “to seize (a person) by legal authority or warrant; to take into custody”. Since you can seize a vehicle, we see that the writer of the dictionary took pains to specify clearly that arresting means seizing a person. However, in the case of our story, the writer, having told us about the police arresting a vehicle, goes further and tells us of another arrest, after they (the police) had found illegal products in the bus: “They immediately arrested the driver, MSP (44), a mechanic and resident of USA River, Arusha Region”. The sequence of events may well have been that the police stopped the bus, inspected it, found the illicit drugs and arrested the driver. No, they did not arrest the bus. According to the correspondent, the drugs were being transported to the neighbouring country of Kenya through “illegal routes popularly known as ‘panya routes’”. ********** I am now transporting myself through some panya route to Nairobi, to read my favourite Saturday Nation of July 11 (I am a bit behind time and have some reading to do, to catch up). The editorial of the Saturday Magazine catches my eye. Opens up the editor: “A few years ago, I found myself jobless, with a baby on the way and pilling bills which included a mortgage to pay”. Now, if your bills are accumulating, they are “piling”, not “pilling”. On page 16 of the same edition of the paper, a seasoned journalist warns writers of spoon-feeding readers: “Please credit the reader with some intelligence”, he urges. I find this advice applicable to the sentence in the editorial that I am reading, frowning at: “pilling bills ‘to pay’”. For, bills are prepared to be paid. They are not for your admiration or for decorating your wall. My dictionary defines a bill as: “a written statement showing how much money you owe someone for goods or services you have received”. So, respecting my readers, I would drop that verb “to pay” and say: “A few years ago, I found myself jobless, with piling bills which included a mortgage, and a baby on the way”. The editor tells us how, in desperation to haul herself out of this quagmire, she would hold onto anything: “There would be people telling me, ‘oh, have you ‘had’ about this moneymaker deal”? That “had”, in the above sentence, possibly crept into from the vernacular. It should be “heard”. “Have you heard about this or that deal?” She took risks but within three months: “I had lost all my money, and ‘come off’ with more debt”. “Come off’ with more debt”? No. “Came off’ with more debt” (past tense). “I had lost all my money and came off with more debt”. The editorial ends with a phrase which I think is applicable to you: “Have a fruitful weekend”. lusuggakironde@gmail.com