……Yanga go second SIMBA were officially crowned the 2019/20 Premier League champions after the end of a barren draw match with Namungo at Majaliwa stadium in Lindi. The official ceremony graced by the Minister for Tourism and Natural resources, Hamis Kigwangala  and the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Hassan Abbasi witnessed Simba sealing treble and the second hat-trick of titles. Simba have clinched the league championship for the 21st time to make it one of the most successful teams in Tanzania. Simba, who were already champions before the draw with Namungo, fielded many youthful players who didn’t feature regularly in the team’s past matches. After the end of the thrilling encounter, Simba continued to lead by far having pocketed 81 points from 34 matches while their traditional rivals Young Africans have climbed up to the second position with 64 points following their 1-0 win over Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba. Azam who didn’t play on Wednesday, have gone down to the third position with 62 points while Namungo have remained fourth with 60 points. Meanwhile, Premier league’s main sponsors Vodacom Tanzania has lauded Simba clinching the league championship for the third time in a row. The firm has also sent congratulations to all teams engaged in the race for this championship "We are proud to be a part of the highly successful Premier league which has been growing up considerably to the extent it continues to attract many quality players from  Africa and beyond,” said the firm’s Business Director, Linda Riwa  who attended the prize-giving ceremony gala in Lindi. Vadacom thanked and commended the football governing body, TFF, Tanzania Premier League Board(TPLB), co-sponsors and all Tanzanians who have been keenly watching all league games, all played a part in making the success of the league. She added through the Premier League Tanzania has now drew attention of the entire continent as the league has drawn a good number of players from Ghana, Congo DR, Ivory Coast, Brazil, Zambia, Mozambique, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Zimbabwe. Linda Riwa, who spoke on behalf of the firm’s Managing Director in Tanzania Hisham Hendi, said the best from the Premier League include Mbwana Samatta who plays for Aston Villa and Simon Msuva, who has been doing wonders in Morocco. Despite a draw, the dying minutes at Majaliwa stadium could have changed everything for both sides. But the most notable incident was in the 88th minute when  Simba’s goalie Benno Kakolanya saved his team when he saved his team from misery. Meddy Mulisa reports from Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba, that Bernard Morrison was a hero when Young Africans defeated Kagera Sugar 1-0 in a tense Premier League match. The Ghanaian striker netted the winner barely ten minutes to stoppage time. His goal enabled Yanga to leapfrog Azam who previously occupied the runner up position. Yanga, who went to Kagera parading 61 points, have now collected 64 points and temporarily pushed Azam with 62 points, to the third position. Azam were facing Mwadui later on Wednesday. Yanga started the game at a cracking pace sending three near misses in the 4th, 8th and tenth minutes  as Deus Kaseke spearheaded the attacking coordinating well with David Moringe, In the 81st, David Moringa sent a well-calculated pass inside Kagera goalmouth to find a well- placed Morrison who scored easily. Yanga Head Coach LUC Eymael praised his players for putting up a spirited game.”Kagera Sugar is a good team and the playground was also good. But my boys played confidently and emerged victorious,” he said. Kagera Sugar Head Coach, Mecky Maxime, on the other hand, conceded that football is a game of chance. ”One mistake cost us the game. Otherwise it was a tough match and both teams played a good game,” he remarked.