YOUNG Africans yesterday sounded the trumpet about controversial player Bernard Morrison saying if he thinks that he has no contract with the club, he is free to join any club of his choice. Morrison, who misbehaved after being substituted during the traditional rivals derby match against Simba SC last Sunday, marched straight to the dressing room a move which was highly criticised by football fans in the country. But, blowing the trumpet yesterday was the club’s Information Officer, Hassan Bumbuli who said they have been quiet for a long time about Morrison’s saga hence its now a time to react. “If he knows that he has no contract at Yanga, he should immediately leave and sign a new deal wherever he thinks is good for him other than keep damaging the image of the club”. “He said he has not been paid a two-month salary which is not right. If that is the case, then he should print a bank statement that he has not received a two-month salary and show it to the reporters,” said Bumbuli. He then urged journalists to find him and encourage him to go elsewhere and sign a new contract to the club which want his services saying Yanga will be even better without him. “After he was substituted on the day against Simba, he went to the dressing room, packed his belongings and went away to unknown destination until now nobody is aware about his whereabouts”. “The following day, he never showed up for training sessions so as the second day and nobody chased him away. I remember David Molinga also did the same thing previously but later, he came and joined his teammates at the camp, as such, what is so special about him (Morrison)”. “We know that many teams are after him and he should go other than speaking a lot about Yanga. He is a big player who is wanted by many teams,” said Bumbuli. He continued that Morrison simply wants to be discussed a lot and thereby make him look big than the club and other Tanzanian players of which he said cannot be allowed to happen. “We have many domestic players who are doing recommendable job for their respective clubs and national team. We have players like Waziri Junior and John Bocco who are at the peak of their careers and deserve to be promoted like talking about Morrison all the time,” narrated Bumbuli. As Morrison moved away from the pitch into the dressing room, he waved ‘bye bye’ to the section occupied by Yanga fans a thing which many people interpreted as a farewell that he will never put on Yanga’s kit.