TANZANIA volleyball star Jackson Mmari has already received three offers from four different countries wanting him to join them for a professional career. Mmari, who currently plays for the Burundian giants, Rukinzo, said his star has been shining since joining professional ranks. Mmari told the ‘Daily News’ from Bujumbura this week that has already received offer from teams based in Rwanda, Congo, Kenya and Cameroon. He said that since his contract with Rukinzo is subject to conclusion August this year, he has already made his mind to pursue career elsewhere after a two-year service in Burundi. “I’m happy to receive such offers from different countries, this means a lot to my dream,” he said. However, he added that he is not in a hurry to make decision, he will rather wait to finish his contract with Rukinzo before deciding something. “Currently I won’t make any move, I have to calm down and study the situation before deciding. I always want to grow from this game and show a way to the coming youth that it pays to invest in sports like volleyball,” he said. “From where I came from, I came to realise that with a passion, efforts and good courage, everything is possible,” added Mmari. Mmari, is a Bachelor Degree of Human Resource Management graduate from Nkumba University in Uganda. He secured the  scholarship in 2014 after being groomed at Makongo Secondary School under veteran coach Yusuph Mkalambati. The 25-year old youth with 6.7 height is a right attacker and very strong on air. Mmari used to play for Jeshi Stars before going to Uganda and also had his club to lift the National Club Championship in the event he emerged the Most Valuable Player (MVP). For Mmari hard work continued to pay him in Burundi where he was named the MVP in his first appearance in the Burundian League. He joined Rukinzo in 2019 from Rwanda Energy Group (REG) of Rwanda, the team he served when he started professional career four years ago. The two years were very successful to Mmari as he also won last year’s league title and also helped his team to win President Cup last month.