PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Monday confirmed and swore in as full Commissioner General of the Drug Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA), Mr James Kaji. Mr Kaji, who prior to his promotion was the Acting Commissioner General of DCEA, has been confirmed due to his outstanding performance in the office. His promotion came unexpectedly as Dr Magufuli made a sudden decision when addressing the nation shortly after swearing event of Regional Commissioners for Tabora and Kigoma, Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) for Simiyu region as well as District Commissioners and District Executive Directors (DEDs), who were appointed recently. Before announcing his decision, Dr Magufuli hailed Mr Kaji for his latest operations that have seen a number of bags of marijuana being seized and destroyed in Arumeru District, Arusha Region. “I have been watching him doing a good job, just yesterday I saw him in one of the districts busy destroying the bags of marijuana. This is the working spirit I want, so from today, (yesterday) I’m confirming you to the full position,” said Dr Magufuli during the event that was live broadcast from Chamwino State House, in Dodoma. However, Dr Magufuli smelled underperformance among heads of security forces in Arumeru district that led to their failure to curb the illicit trade in the district, forcing the DCEA chief to intervene. “This means there is a weakness somewhere among our officers at the district level, they were supposed to be the first one to discover this but they did nothing,” said the President, adding; “The OCD, OC-CID and District Security Officer (DSO) for Arumeru have failed to do their job, I’m ordering for their bosses here to remove them from their current positions. There is no way that they had to wait for the commissioner to leave the office in Dodoma, just to do the job that was nothing to their capacities.” The move, according to the Head of State should serve as a wakeup call for all other public servants and his appointees across the country to fulfill their duties effectively. All he wants is to see tangible results from his appointees across the country, maintaining that there is zero tolerance to those who fail to fulfill their duties. “There might be a syndicate somewhere, it doesn’t make sense in a situation where there are local government leaders from Ward Executive Officers, OCD, DC and RC and yet, the task of establishing, seizure and destroying of marijuana piles in their administrative areas waits the arrival of DCEA boss from headquarters in Dodoma, this is unacceptable,” he explained.