THE country’s telecommunication industry is tipped to overtake the beverages sector in generating more in consumption taxes in the near future, thanks to reforms taken in the last five years. The sector registered a steady growth in sim-card subscription, climbing from 39 million users in 2015 to 43 million this March, while internet usage increased from 9.0million to 25 million. PwC said in its 2020 Navigating through Uncertainty National Budget Bulletin that historically, taxes on consumption have been dominated by taxes in the form of VAT and excise duty on excisable goods. “Indeed,” PwC said, “the telecommunications sector now probably generates more in consumption taxes than the alcohol sector.” President John Magufuli said when closing the National Assembly recently that the cost of making a call dropped from 267/-to 40/-a minute in five years. “The number of telephone and data users increased after costs of making a call considerably went down,” President Magufuli said. The president also said that the quality of voice call increased from 79 percent five years ago to 94 percent last year. However, PwC said recently years had also seen increased taxes on services, including the extension of excise duty to telecommunications which had been taking an increasing share of the consumer wallet. The steady progression of excise duty on telecommunications meant that turnover taxes, including excise duty, VAT, service levy, and regulatory levies, represent a 40.4 percent of turnover. Minister for Works, Transport and Communication Eng. Isack Kamwelwe, said when delivering the ministry 2020/21 speech that the sector grew by 11 percent last year compared to 9.1 percent previous year. “Principally, the sector has contributed to simplifying the work process and improving the social and economic life of the people through access to a variety of services openly, easily, quickly and without favoritism,” Eng. Kamwelwe said. The minister also said the ICT sector had simplified and improved government tax collection processes, among them Telecom Traffic Monitoring System (TTMS). TTMS is an advanced telecommunications traffic monitoring system that is specifically designed to provide governments and telecom institutions with comprehensive, real-time visibility over the whole of the interconnection traffic handled by local operators and international carriers. TCRA’s Director General, James Kilaba said last January that the authority collected over 93bn/-in public revenues in the five years since the system was first put in place to monitor incoming international calls alone. World Bank (WB), said in Tanzania Economic Update when addressing the impact of Covid-19 with a special section on the role of ICT that there had been progress, notably on the connectivity front where Tanzania’s highvolume data products 10GB and Greater “are among the cheapest in East Africa”. Furthermore, the country is now also connected to three international undersea cables and a new market entrant, Halotel, has rolled out significant amounts of fiber to rural areas.