SIMBA Queens Head Coach, Mussa Mgosi said his side's 5-1 triumph over Yanga Princes was a path cleaning victory ahead of today's traditional derby match between Simba and Young Africans. The Queens were on front pedal on Friday as they mercilessly punished their city rivals in the Serengeti Lite Women's Premier League match at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to cement their top stay at the summit of the table. With the success, Simba Queens lead the 12-team log with 38 points while Yanga Princes are fifth placed with 23 points hence they have decimal chance to claim the championship at the end of the marathon. "As you know, we paused the celebrations for lifting the top flight league title by their brothers until Sunday (today) as such, this win was to just clean up the path ahead of Sunday's celebrations," Mgosi said. He added that Yanga Princes have been steps behind them in terms of success in the unfolding women's league saying they never give him troubles at all. "It was simply a good game and we have a responsibility to make sure that we solve some of the problems which surfaced during the match ahead of upcoming fixtures," Mgosi, the former Simba SC player said. On her part, Yanga Princes coach Edina Lema conceded the defeat saying they made a lot of errors in the second half which were advantage to their opponents. "I know that Mgosi is happy with the victory but what I can say is that I will revenge on the defeat before I leave this club," she said. She further said there are many games coming up as such, no need to look back at the previous match but rather focus positively on what is approaching. "I am the only female coach in the league hence many coaches feel happy whenever they post good results against my team but we still have a room to improve," Lema who is also Assistant Coach for the national women football team said. She also pointed out that her side had a great match in the first half which ended 1-1 but gave it all in the second half as they conceded four unanswered goals. Tanzania is one of the few countries on the continent which run women's football leagues and has a vibrant national women football team which has won various international titles.