PRESIDENT John Magufuli today leads the nation in a state funeral of the late former President Benjamin Mkapa, who died of cardiac arrest last Thursday. National leaders and other dignitaries are set to attend the event at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam from 9.00am, preceded by the requiem mass at the St Immaculate Catholic Church at Upanga early in the morning. Speaking yesterday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said various leaders from within and outside the country and the general public would be allowed to enter the stadium from 6.30 am. “Tomorrow (today) is reserved for government leaders who did not have the opportunity in the past two days including President Magufuli, Vice- President Samia Suluh Hassan, President of Zanzibar Dr Ali Mohamed Shein and few others,” said the Premier, who is also the chairman of the national funeral committee. “We have a list of leaders from neighbouring countries, who have confirmed to attend the event, some heads of states will be represented by their embassies in Tanzania and others have already sent their delegations to attend the funeral,” he said. The event will feature remarks from state officials and condolences from some people, who worked with the departed former president, leaders from foreign countries as well as members of the diplomatic missions. Some of the foreign leaders who would attend the event include the Prime Minister of Burundi, General Alain Bunyoni, who is representing the Burundian President Evariste Ndayishimiye. Gen Bunyoni has been accompanied by the Speaker of Burundi Senate, Reverien Ndukuriyo and the Deputy Secretary General of the ruling party, CNDD-FDD, Joseph Ntakarutimana. Upon arrival at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) yesterday aboard Air Tanzania flight the Burundian delegation were received by the Foreign Affairs Minister Palamagamba Kabudi. The Burundian leaders said they have been saddened by the death of the former statesman, noting he has departed while his contributions were still needed. According to the schedule, after the event at the Uhuru Stadium, the body of the late Mkapa will be transported to Lupaso village, Masasi District in Mtwara region for the burial arranged for tomorrow afternoon. At Lupaso village, mourners will be given an opportunity to pay their final respect to the body of the late Mkapa from 8.00am to 12.00 noon before he is laid to rest in his family graveyard. Mr Majaliwa, who also paid his last respect to the former president, thanked Tanzanians who went to pay their respects to the body of Mzee Mkapa, at the stadium between Sunday to yesterday. Expounding further on the funeral arrangement, Mr Majaliwa insisted that since today there will be a busy and tight schedule, members of the public should arrive early at the stadium ready to observe the event. Earlier, the government’s Spokesperson Dr Hassan Abbasi said a special arrangement has been made for government officials including ministers, regional and district commissioners, heads of public and private institutions and representatives of civil associations to attend the event, saying they would use special shuttle buses from Karimjee Hall to the stadium. Monday’s event to pay last respect to the body of Mzee Mkapa was led by the former Speaker of the Parliament Ms Anna Makinda. Groups of people who had an opportunity for the event were ministers, deputy ministers, Permanent Secretaries and their deputies, heads of public and private institutions, Regional and District Commissioners (RCs and DCs), those who worked closely with the late third phase president as well as the general public present at the stadium.