SOMBRE mood engulfed the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday, at the event to pay last respects to the departed former President Benjamin Mkapa.President John Magufuli led thousands of mourners to the event that would be concluded tomorrow afternoon, before the body of the deceased is transported to Lupaso village in Masasi District, Mtwara Region for burial set for Wednesday. Majority of mourners present at the Uhuru Stadium were in either black, or black and white, in a quiet mood as they were following the requiem mass led by four Catholic bishops. They included Bishop Taricisius Ngalalekumtwa of Iringa Diocese who led the mass assisted by Mahenge Diocese Bishop Agapiti Ndorobo, Antony Banzi of Tanga and Alfred Maluma of Njombe Diocese. Covered by the national flag, the casket carrying the body of formerproceeded to Selander Bridge, Ocean road, Kivukoni road, Old Postal office, Ventral police Station and Bandari roundabout. Under the escort of police officers and members of the army, the motorcade that also was with the family members of the late Mkapa headed to Kilwa road before it arrived at the stadium for the requiem mass. Thousands of Dar es Salaam residents gathered alongside the roads, where the motorcade passed through, so that they could have a glance at the casket of the late former state man. Members of security forces were active all the time to ensure security was maintained throughout the massfor which, other members of the public had an opportunity to view the body for the last time. Preaching during the memorial mass, Bishop Ngalalekumtwa said there are times when God speaks to the creation and He has a language that He wants everyone to understand. “We are sons and citizens of the kingdom of God, the Lord is the one who has a say in our lives and governs them too, so that we may reach a happy and blessed end. Mkapa leaves us a reminder in his last autobiography ‘My Life, My Purpose’ the crucial book we all read,” he said. He added, “We must recognise that life is given to us as a gift when you were created, you must assess if it reflects God’s plan for you as well as your earthly pilgrimage it is a blessing to others or not.” On behalf of Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC),Bishop Ndorobo said the death of Mkapa was a tragedy for the nation as well as the church of Tanzania and the world at large. He described Mkapa as a good father who loved all Tanzanians and Africa in general. “Mkapa knew how to listen to every person’s problems and was able to help them to the best of his ability; this is what we will remember him for after his death. We promise Mama Anna Mkapa that we are praying for her and we are with her in this trying times,” said Bishop Ndorobo. Earlier, St Joseph Cathedral, Parish Priest Rev Fr. Joseph Matumaini  announced that offerings collected from the Mass would be spent on renovating a house for Catholic priests at the late Mkapa’s birthplace of Lupaso in Mtwara. “Mkapa grew to love priests, deacons and bishops so he promised to renovate the house of priests of Lupaso parish which is dilapidated. Dar es Salaam Archbishop Thaddeus Ruwa’ichi on behalf of TEC has directed that today’s offering to be used for that purpose,” he said. According to him, renovation requires more than 20m/- because since it was built by the missionaries it has not undergone major renovations that will leave a mark. Apart from President Magufuli and the first lady mama Janeth Magufuli, other leaders present at the event were the Vice President Mama Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa with his wife and the Second Vice President of Zanzibar Ambassador Seif Ali Idd. Others were the Minister of Defence Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi, who is also the Presidential Candidate of Zanzibar in the coming general election, cabinet ministers, deputy ministers, senior government officials and the general public.