ALLIANCE Girls striker, Aisha Khamis was unstoppable on Monday after scoring six goals to steer her team secure a massive 11-1 win over Panama Girls at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza. Khamis was not the only star of the day, as Aisha Juma scored four and Sarah Joel also netted four times in the same game, while Panama consolation goal in the Women Premier League clash was scored by Happynico Maselo. Following the results, Alliance Girls are now placed third on the log after pocketing 31 points from 13 games. As for Panama, they remain at the bottom after securing only one win in 14 games they played, drew once and thus collected four points. At Mo Simba Arena, Simba Queen suffered their first defeat in 2019/20 season after JKT Queens unlocked them with a 2-1 win. Simba’s plan was to complete the season unbeaten, a record that has been achieved by JKT Queens twice. Stumai Abdalah’s goal and Asha Djafari own goal were enough to sunken Simba’s boat despite Asha Djafari’s effort to make it level. Despite the loss, Simba still command the league table with 35 points, as JKT Queens are placed second after collecting 32 points. Baobab Queens beat Marsh Queens 3-0 at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. The three goals were scored by Jamila Rajabu, Martha John and Fausta Ngowi. Following the victory, Baobab Queens moved to eighth place on the log after collecting 15 points, while Marsh Queens dropped to the tenth place with 12 points. TSC Queens who were at home ground Gwambina lost 1-2 to Ruvuma Queens. Yusta Constantine scored the only goal for TSC, while Amina Ramadhani and Diana Lucas scored for Ruvuma. Ruvuma has now progressed to the third place and pocketed 31 points, while TSC taking ninth. In a thrilling contest, Yanga Princess drew 2-2 against Mlandizi Queens at Mabatini ground. Grace Mbelay and Fatuma Bushiri scored for Yanga; While the host Mlandizi got their goals from Zainabu Dudu and Emiliana Mdimu. Tanzanite Sports Club, who for quite a while, failed to register victory but this Monday, they won against Kigoma Sisterz by 2-1. After their win, Tanzanite has collected seven points in 14 games and are fixed second from the bottom.