PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday said the government will raise taxes on imported goods as one of the measures to protect local industries. Officiating at the 44th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) that opened its doors on Wednesday, Premier Majaliwa said as the fifth phase government carries out an industrialisation agenda, regulating trade competition within the country for local products to gain reliable domestic market is a non-negotiable matter. He further said the government will also put in place strategies for Tanzanians to use locally produced products. “The government will continue to create an enabling environment especially through the Blueprint for Regulatory Reforms to improve the business environment that aims to remove all hurdles and bureaucracies that hinder business growth,” he noted. Mr Majaliwa underscored the importance of research institutions to continue conducting researches that will support business people to flourish. “We have seen how research has benefited the country especially when we wanted to re-establish palm and sisal productions. Through researches, farmers recorded bumper harvest after accessing improved seedlings,” he said. He further said the implementation of the Blueprint has also enabled improvements of 173 charges that were frustrating traders in the country out of which 163 have been dropped and 10 reduced. Among the dropped fees and charges 114 are in the agricultural and livestock sector, five are in Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) and 44 in Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS). Since President Magufuli assumed the highest leadership position in the country in late 2015, industrialization has been on top of the government agenda, as he has always been gunning on building an industrial economy. Tanzania has established 60,000 small and large scale industries since independence of which more than 8,000 have been set up in five years’ administration of President Magufuli. The number of foreign exhibitors at the 44th DITF has decreased to 43 compared to 520 last year while local exhibitors also decreased from 3,250 in 2019 to 2,837, countries participated from outside Tanzania include Turkey, Syria, India, China, UAE and Ghana. The fair will wind up on 13 July. In terms of business activities, he said continuous efforts are being made to create a friendly environment to enable the sector to grow and contribute 8.8 per cent to GDP. He said this year’s exhibition themed ‘Industrial Economy for Employment and Sustainable Trade’ aims to recognize the contribution of the agricultural and industrial sectors in increasing employment and sustainable trade but also aims at recognizing the private sector. “DITF is specifically designed to ensure that arts, business, services and culture can access authentic local and international markets,” Mr Majaliwa elaborated. Speaking on the effects of Covid-19, Prime minister Majaliwa said the pandemic taught Tanzania to strengthen its sectors, including agriculture, trade and industry in order to satisfy domestic demand and surplus for export. He said the government will keep on creating a better and friendlier business environment and enabling the business and manufacturing sector to grow and attract more investors. The industrial sector is expected to grow significantly, whereby over the next five years the government has succeeded in revitalizing the sector with 8,447 new factories being built and contributing to 482,601 new jobs. Mr Majaliwa said the contribution of manufacturing to GDP grew by 8.5 per cent in 2019 compared to 8.05 in 2018 this growth equals to 5.8 per cent, small business sector and small business continues to contribute 35 per cent in 2019/2020, 304 projects related to the industrial sector were registered, which is expected to increase 11,795 jobs. Minister for Industry and Trade Mr Innocent Bashungwa said the government efforts to encourage investment in the industrial sector had helped to boost production. “Currently, Tanzania is producing a variety of products which can be sold not only within the country but also abroad,” he said. Minister Bashungwa, however, said that the government was working on the possibilities of dispatching commercial attachés to its embassies abroad that will help to make an evaluation of the market demand of products produced in Tanzania. “The ministry has already directed the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (Tan- Trade) to work on the plan and assess its benefits,” he said. He said his ministry is collaborating with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation so that they can begin with its main trading partners while it continues working on the plan of posting trade attaches to its embassies