FROM Matarawe in Songea through Manzese in Dar es salaam to Legezamwendo in Kigoma within our neighbourhoods in rare cases we have seen two blood related brothers going separate ways because of love but among the society of dikdik and duikers of the African Savannah it’s a common practice. These are two small related antelopes who are obsessed with too much love filled with jealousness to their wives to a point of forcing them to quarrel and fight and sometime kill each other because of love. Dikdik are the ones who started the conflict because of their monogamy way of life whereby a male live and bread with a single female throughout his entire life and doesn’t allow anyone to be closer to his territory because he is not ready at any given time to shire or give out his love to another female apart from his wife. In Mkomazi, Rubondo, Mikumi, Ruaha and Udzungwa Mountains and other national parks male giraffe normally are involved in a dangerous battle called necking which include pushing and hitting one another with their long neck while male zebra, wildebeest, buffalo and elephant will fiercely fight even kill each other so that one may get a chance to bread with a female who is in heat period. Amazingly among dikdik things are totally different because a full matured male will look around the wide forest of savannah for a life partner then together with great care they will deposit dung around an area to create a territory with the male insuring that his deposit covers those from his wife and guard boundaries against other bachelor male. This is an important ritual among the dikdik society because it reduces unnecessary tension between two brothers or neighbour also its highly respected and observed by every individual male and female of this society of Savannah as male do not allow a mature lamb to stay closer with his mother while mothers will always chase away a full grown daughter. In savannah grassland of Mikumi national park this is done in order to stop young and beautiful female or energetic young males from interfering romantic life of their parent by overpowering one of them resulting into being sent into exile where loneliness and coldness surround the life of a dikdik who lose a life partner. A pair of dikdik forage, play and relax together that is why ecologists in Africa and in many zoos around the World believe that 64 per cent of life of a male dikdik is spent with a single female whom he breads and rise family with. Female may be tempted at difficult time to run away and start new life with male of higher status who own a larger area full of enough grass, shrubs with fruit, pods, seeds, roots, bark, flowers and other resources. In Mkomazi national park when a male Dikdik is abandoned by his wife or lose her through death his life is always put into a dangerous situation because he may stop grazing and stand in an open area for a long time because of depression. Some experienced hunters of African savannah say dikdik male mourn for his wife who was killed by a hungry stricken predator like lion, leopard or cheetah, the loneliness pushes the animal to an extent of crying with tears dropping from their eyes like human being, they also say it’s very easy to hunt and kill them when they are in this difficult situation. Unlike dikdik, male duiker will mark his territory first before making an invitation for a single female to come and live with him while refusing other male from entering by standing on to a raised position for example a termite mound to see and chase away any male intruder. An adult male duiker will put boundary of his area by painting trees, grasses and rocks with black fluid from preorbital glands located on each side of his head which has unique odour which mark and identify his ownership differently from those of his neighbour and brothers. A male duiker will always fight with his brother, neighbour and friend whom he feels is going into his territory where his wife may be foraging, playing or relaxing although they don’t browse or graze together. Though they don’t stand on guard but female duiker doesn’t allow her sister, aunt and friends into her area because of jealousness against her husband whom she bread with him in her entire life, unlike female dikdik who fight with her sister for love of the husband female duiker are more romantic because they spend most of their time to seduce their husband by grooming so that they bring them closer and avoid being abandoned for another female. Morphologically duiker and dikdik are antelopes who almost resembles each other because they all have brown colour but the first brother has a black line which runs from the mouth to upper part of the head where horns emerge while the second brother (dikdik) posses swollen black spot on the tip of their eyes. The swollen black spots are scent glands or the preorbital glands which enables every member of these two related communities to differentiate each other without confrontation because they help antelope to distinguish his or her own smell between those of others in open grassland of Savannah. All female of dikdik and duiker will secure their new borne by putting them out of sight of Lion, Leopard, Wild dog, Hyena and Jackal by placing them into area covered with thick vegetation and marking these areas with the black scent fluid. While dwelling within an area with little vegetation cover these two small antelopes use their brown colour, dry plants to camouflage with the ground and avoid predators, the two small antelopes have very wide nostrils connected with powerful veins which carry blood to underbelly where its cooled by wind before being sent back to different parts of the body allowing the antelope to browse or graze in the mid day when temperature is high. Duiker and Dikdik use this ability which enables them to graze even when temperature is very high at 104°Fahrenheit or 40 °C when most predators stop hunting because of fear being dehydrated by the Sun. rstanslaus@yahoo.com