THE National Social Security Fund (NSSF) has injected 5bn/-into small and medium entrepreneurs (SMEs) lending project called ‘SANVN Viwanda Scheme’ through which at least 1,385 direct employment opportunities will be created. Speaking during the launch of the operational manual for financing the SMEs in the industrial sector, NSSF Director General William Erio said NSSF had opted for a vibrant sector as the country attained the lower middle-income income status. He said NSSF was a project sponsor and other stakeholders were Azania Bank, Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) and Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) under the coordination of the National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC). Mr Erio called on the SMEs that would benefit from the project to utilise it by investing in productive areas as per their project write-up to boost their businesses. He said the government had decided to come up with the project to empower the SMEs after realising that they lacked business skills, capital and markets and with the project all such challenges had been taken care of. Mr Erio said they had injected the initial 5bn/-through Azania Bank and the amount would increase depending on the demand of those, who had met the criteria. "We want the project to give fresh impetus to the industrial economy for improved standards of living and economic growth," said the NSSF boss. NEEC Executive Secretary Beng'I Issa said they had come up with the project after it was clear that many SMEs could not access loans and thus failed to add value to their products. “With the project VETA and SIDO have been tasked to train and scrutinise write-ups and submit a shortlisted of applicants to Azania Bank for endorsement and the issuance of loans. During the launch, Minister for Trade and Industry, Innocent Bashungwa wanted loan issuance to take a short time so that applicants could realise their objectives as planned. He said the Viwanda Scheme was an ideal project for the industrial economy as it involved agriculture for the industrial economy to take off. Launching the operational manual, Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Jenista Mhagama stressed a need for each institution to play its role in the industrial financing project. Ms Mhagama said the government had given the SMEs an opportunity to access loans for all Tanzanians regardless of their socioeconomic status. She said the government was committed to having a vibrant industrial sector which boost economic growth and enable the country to qualify for the upper middle-income status in future. The minister urged beneficiaries to ensure they spent the loan facility for intended projects and not otherwise. She also cautioned lenders to be fair on eligible applicants. Ms Mhagama wanted NEEC to create a database of the beneficiaries, monitor and evaluate them on how they performed and in case of any challenges address them on time.