AFTER being held to a barren draw by Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Thursday, champions Simba SC are looking to claim three points against Polisi Tanzania tomorrow. The two teams will face each other on the final day of the season at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi with the league debutants eager to post their first ever league victory against Simba. Polisi Tanzania will be searching to revenge the 2-1 loss they succumbed from Simba when they met in the first round of the top flight league at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. On the day, a last minute goal by Ibrahim Ajib earned Simba crucial points as the visitors were in top form and at one point of the match, it looked like the encounter was to end 1-1. It has been a good season for the Moshi based club despite the fact that it is their debut season to feature in the Mainland Premier League but have managed to stage resistance to most of the teams they met during the marathon. However, speaking after the draw, Simba defender Erasto Nyoni said they initially planned to win the match such that it was just unfortunate for them to bag one point. “It was a competitive game and both of us played to win but in the end, a draw was the output. For us, we prepare game after game such that after today’s (Thursday) match, we have now switched our focus to the next match,” he said. Nyoni added: “I believe that we will train well to get all three points from our next match against Polisi Tanzania.” However, Simba’s defender Pascal Wawa will miss the final day match of the season for his side after being flashed with a red card for overreacting as the match unfolded. On his part, Coastal Union coach Juma Mgunda showered praises on his players saying they executed well the game plan he gave them. “We played against an experienced team but my boys were not afraid of that and they simply put on a good fight which has enabled us to get one point”. “I can say they have managed to follow my instructions almost 80 per cent and that is what has made me to be satisfied a lot,” he said. Moreover, Mgunda who is also Assistant Coach of the national team Taifa Stars said they will fight until the last day of the season insisting that there is no small or big team.