THE Premier League matches played yesterday in Iringa and Mwanza failed to give a clear picture of which teams will join Singida United at the First Division League despite temporarily removing Lipuli from the relegation zone. The battle to shrug off relegation was not too successful to Ndanda FC and Alliance FC after the teams fought to worthless draw. But there was a sign of relief to Lipuli FC who kicked off relegation line after securing a 1-0 win over Ruvu Shooting at Samora Stadium in Iringa yesterday. In a thrilling game Alliance FC welcomed Ndanda FC at their home stadium Nyamagana where the game was really competitive despite ending 2-2 draw. Nine minutes after the first half whistle Alliance got an opening goal from Israel Patrick before Abdul Hamis equalised for Ndanda in the 16th minute. Omary Mponda doubled for Ndanda FC in the 51th minute, matching ahead of Alliance but nine minutes later Omary Mponda leveled for Alliance. This draw has Alliance pocket 42 points, but they have remained fixed at the 18th position, same as Ndanda FC who are at the second place from the bottom with 41 points. In the other game Lipuli FC secured a win against Ruvu Shooting by 1-0 at Samora Stadium Iringa even though it was a very tight one. Lipuli got a goal from Daruesh Saliboko in the 78th minute through a penalty spot kick. Lipuli has now moved to the 13th place after collecting 44 points in 37 games they played. In another encounter it was Coastal Union against Simba SC at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga where the game ended with a goalless. It was indeed a big game, as every minute was precious and with tension. As the tension led to careless fouls that gave Simba a first red card since the 2019/21 season begun. Pascal Wawa was the player who was registered a red card after being shown two yellow cards while as well Mohammed Hussein and Hassan Dilunga were shown yellow cards too. From what witnessed this week the battle has become intense and even Mbao, Mwadui and Mtibwa Sugar, who previously looked safe might wait to see if they are safe in the 38th round of the league. From both yesterday and Wednesday’s fixture it is now apparent that the teams to join Singida United at the First Division will be known in the last round of the league. Lipuli’s win has forced Mbeya City to remain at the play-off zone, while Mbao whose 3-0 blitz over Namungo in Mwanza moved them to the 16 position from the 19 position, are back at the relegation zone. Mbeya City with 42 points can change the standings if they win or draw with Azam in their match played later yesterday. Mwadui seem to have almost shrugged off relegation threat after beating KMC 1-0 on Wednesday. Mwadui who were safe at the 13th position with 44 points prior to yesterday’s fixture are now placed 14th and are not far from the danger zone. Four bottom-placed teams will be relegated while two classed at 15 and 16 positions will play in the play-off stage against two teams from the First Division League (FDL). Going into the 38 round of the league, teams above Tanzania Prisons who are placed 9 can claim to be safe from relegation. The teams include leaders Simba, Yanga, Azam, Namungo, Polisi Tanzania, Kagera Sugar, Coastal Union and JKT Tanzania.