PRESIDENT John Magufuli has appointed a Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), two regional and nine district commissioners to fill vacancies created by the retirement of their predecessors. According to a statement released by the Director of Presidential Communications Mr Gerson Msigwa, The President has appointed Ms Mariam Perla Mmbaga as Simiyu Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), replacing Mr Jumanne Sagini. Prior to her appointment, Ms Mbaga was a director in the Ministry of State in the President’s Office (Regional administration and local governments). According to the statement, President Magufuli appointed Dr Philemon Sengati as the new RC for Tabora Region, replacing Mr Aggrey Mwanri who has retired. Dr Sengati was previously District Commissioner of Magu in Mwanza Region. President Magufuli also appointed the former Fire and Rescue Force, Commissioner General Thobias Andengenye, the new Kigoma RC, replacing Brigadier General Emmanuel Maganga who has retired. In another development, President Magufuli appointed nine new district commissioners replacing eight who have retired, and transferring others. Among them include Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Ismail Twahir Malwa to head Kilombero District in Morogoro Region. He was previously the Senior Commissioner of Prisons in Morogoro Region. He replaces Mr James Ihunyo who has retired. Other new DCs include Ms Jamila Yusufu (Mpanda in Katavi); she was previously Dodoma CCM secretary. She replaces Lilian Charles who has retired. Engineer Martine Ntemo (Kibaha), previously an engineer in the transport ministry. He replaces Asumpter Nshunju Mshana who has retired. Mr Salum A. Kali has been posted to Magu. He was CCM Secretary in Mwanza Region, and is replacing Dr Sengati who has been appointed Tabora RC. President Magufuli also appointed Wilson Samuel Shimo, the new DC of Nyang’wale in Geita. He was previously District Administrative Secretary (DAS). Others are Mathias Kahabi (Biharamulo), who replaces Saada Malunde who has retired and Mr Abbas Kayanda (Karatu), who replaces Theresia Jonthan Mahongo who has retired. Lazaro Jacob Twange is the new DC for Babati in Manyara Region, as a replacement for Ms Elizabeth Simon Kitundu who has retired. The president also appointed Mr Toba Alnason Nguvila (Handeni), replacing Godwin Gondwe who has shifted to Temeke District, replacing Mr Felix Jackson Lyaniva who has retired. The appointees will be sworn in at the State House in Chamwino, Dodoma, on Monday.