THE government has instructed various institutions and authorities that regulate the welfare of entrepreneurs in the country to invest more in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) measures that will help SMEs access reliable information so that they access reliable markets within and outside the country. Speaking during the closing ceremony of the Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair - Saba Saba, Zanzibar Minister of Trade and Industry, Ambassador Amina Salum Ali, said the availability of reliable information on products and their markets will greatly help SMEs, especially farmers, who are in need of such information to make decisions based on proper market intelligence. She further called upon Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade) to extend its presence by ensuring it helps SMEs to connect with big markets. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Trade and Industry, Prof Riziki Shemdoe, said her office, through TanTrade, has continued to improve the exhibition while praising various institutions, including NBC and Bank of Tanzania, for sponsoring the fair. “The aim is to make sure the exhibition improves each year by attracting more participants and help to bring together traders and investors who subsequently create various business opportunities,’’ he added. Speaking after receiving the award for recognizing NBC Bank’s contribution to making the exhibition a success, the Bank’s Managing Director, Mr Theobald Sabi, said they had been giving the exhibition a boost as it has been bringing SMEs from all parts of the country and thus complied with the bank’s priorities. The bank is more focused on providing services that are in line with the needs of SMEs in the country. “Wherever the SMEs are, it is clear that NBC Bank will also be there to serve their financial needs,” he said. “To further ensure that, our presence at this exhibition is felt; we even hosted SMEs in our premises at the exhibition grounds through our business club dubbed ‘NBC-Club’ that networks SMEs and gives them access to business trips, free business consultation and preferential freebies in some of the services, an initiative that ensures seamless transition of the sector,’’ he explained. Studies show that the SMEs sector contributes 35 per cent to the GDP, employing more than 5.2 million people in the country. On his part, Tan Trade Board Chairman, Dr Ng’waza Soko, said despite the Covid-19 pandemic crisis in Tanzania and globally, this year’s trade fair broke the record and registered 57,608 patrons from 53,504 of last year.