THREE pupils, two of them from the same family who were studying at Mnyaki Primary School have drowned into a pond near their school, while swimming. The school is located inside the Katumba Refugee Camp in Nsimbo Council, Mpanda District in Katavi Region. The pupils have been identified as Edson Antony (7) who was in Standard One and his bother Stan Abel (9), who was in Standard Three; both are from the same family. The other was named as Jenifa Justine (13), who was in Standard Six. However, report from the scene showed the school is surrounded by five ponds that were dug by local bricks’ manufacturers, who bake and sell them to the residents for houses building. Reached for a comment, Katavi Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr Benjamin Kuzaga, confirmed the incidents to have occurred on July 7th, this year. According to the Katumba Health Centre Medical-in-Charge, Dr Mohamed Bundaga, he was informed of the incident by the Officer-in-charge of Nkeswa Police Station via telephone communication that three children drowned in the pond. “It was around 6: 30 pm on July 7th this year, when I received a phone from Nkeswa Police Station Officer-in-charge of the incident .... I swiftly rushed to the scene and confirmed the deaths of three children, who were the pupils at Mnyaki Primary School,” he added. The mother of the two related children, Ms Mary Samwel from Mnyaki B village, said she learnt of the incident, while away in her daily business chores. “The day of the incident was Saba -Saba Holiday, so the children did not go to school ... I left my two children at home and I proceeded to village market where I engage in my petty business...Then I heard fellow traders saying that three children have drowned while swimming in one of the ponds near the school. “I became worried and asked a bodaboda rider to rush me to the scene and I got shocked, when I saw my children Edison and Stan already dead,” she said. A cross-section of Mnyaki B residents, who were interviewed by the ‘Daily News’, however, called upon the government to immediate intervene and force those who dug the ponds to refill them, because they endanger lives of children in the school. “Coincidentally it was on last Sunday during a Mass that our Church leader and village chairman cautioned children to refrain from swimming in the ponds dug closer to the school,” said Ms Devota Mpimbo from the village.