YOUNG people living with HIV/Aids (NYP+) are among the recipients of a 5bn/-programme for empowering Tanzanians economically to improve livelihoods countrywide, a minister has said. Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled) Jenista Mhagama assured this during a meeting organised by the Network of Young People Living with HIV/Aids—under the National Council of People Living with HIV (Nacopha) in collaboration with USAID held at the Prime Minister's Office in Dodoma. According to Ms Mhagama, the government last week launched an empowerment programme implemented in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Trade and Industry and that about 5bn/-had been set aside for the progamme. Nacopha, under the auspices of USAID invited young people living with HIV/Aids so that they could air their needs to the Prime Minister's Office and be listened to. NYP+ under its campaign dubbed ‘Tuyajenge’ sought to push for their needs to the government after seeking to meet Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. The Premier sent Ms Mhagama to represent him at the meeting and the latter promised to work on their needs. Presenting their needs before the minister, NYP+ Chairperson Pudenciana Mbwiliza requested the government to help young people living with HIV/Aids so that they could fully participate in national development building. "We would wish to see the government have a strategic plan for economic empowerment especially for people living with HIV/Aids,'' she said. Ms Mbwiliza further requested the Prime Minister to be the guardian of NYP+ due to the fact that Mr Majaliwa had always been in the frontline on raising awareness on voluntary testing. A recent HIV/Aids indicators survey indicates that about 40 per cent of the youth in the country live with HIV/Aids out of which 80 per cent of the population accounts for girls. That is why Nacopha in collaboration with USAID has decided to help the youth to meet officials from the Prime Minister's Office to push for their needs. The meeting was also attended by the Tanzania Commission for Aids (Tacaids) Executive Director, Dr Leonard Maboko. Tacaids is an independent department under the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Nacopha is an umbrella organisation established by People Living with HIV/Aids (PLHIV) to serve as the apex body and ultimate voice to advocate issues and concerns of the PLHIV in Tanzania. At the meeting, Nacopha was represented by the chairperson of an organisation, Ms Leticia Kapela. 