OVER the last five years, the water sector has made significant strides thanks to the fifth-phase government’s boldness and ambitious goal to ease women’s water fetching burden. Under the marshal of President John Magufuli, Tanzania has registered great progress in the water sector, with accessibility of clean and safe water rising in both rural and urban areas. This success can be witnessed all over the country, whereby several mega water projects have been completed, while others are in their final stages of completion. Such all projects are targeting to achieve the government’s set target of 95 and 85 per cent of people with access to safe and clean water in urban and rural areas by 2020 respectively. Several efforts have been made by the government, to assure the target to a great extent is met. Among the efforts was the establishment of a campaign dubbed ‘Kumtua Mama Ndoo Kichwani’, which saw mega water projects flourishing. The campaign has eased water scarcity in the country’s highly populated Dar es Salaam region and the neighbouring Coast region, which in the recent past faced severe water woes. The two regions are served by Dar es Salaam Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (DAWASA). The authority has executed various mega water projects, which in the past seemed impossible to many residents of the two regions. And, setting an example to other water authorities in the country, DAWASA managed to accomplish some of its mega projects, including the expansion of the Upper and Lower Ruvu water treatment plants, which are the pivot source of water for Dar es Salaam and Coast regions. The expansion project involved the improvement of water transmission infrastructure and distribution network, which is still going on aiming at enabling easy access and further reach of the precious liquid to many people. The expansion of the two plants located in Mlandizi and Bagamoyo respectively have increased water supply capacity from 92 million litres to 196 million litres per day at the Upper Ruvu and from 182 million litres to 270 million litres at Lower Ruvu. Furthermore, 18 mega and small scale water projects are being implemented by DAWASA and 199 small scale projects have been completed and improving water network and access, especially to the areas, which had no water network. DAWASA Chief Executive, Engineer Cyprian Luhemeja, disclosed that the implementation of  those  projects  have  enabled  the  authority to raise the percentage of water access to residents  of  the city of  Dar es Salaam from 68 per cent to 88 and 123,000 connections to 326,000   respectively. Most parts of Dar es Salaam and Coast region have been lacking clean and safe water network services for years and now are connected. Some areas that were critically affected include  Majengo, Tatedo, Mbezi Manyema, Mbezi Mtoni, Kwa Ndambi, Kontena mbuyuni, Baraza la Mitihani, Kwa Abarikiwe, Usukumani, Kwa Mtenga, Gold star, Kwa santa, Kwa power Nyati, Mito Miwili just  to name  a few. Other  areas  are now served  by  Dawasa  Tegeta  office; Mikocheni Mabwepande, Malolo, Mabwe, Salasala, Kilimahewa, Kitunda street, Bunju beach, Muungano, Goba and Majengo. On the other hand Eng Luhemeja  unveiled  that  water access  services  in  Coast region  which   has  currently  been  baptized as the hub  of industries has reached  potential areas including  Kibaha, Bagamoyo, Mkuranga, Chalinze and Kisarawe aiming at boosting the economic growth   as well tackle water blues to a great extent. Projects which  have  been  implemented by the authority to ensure  areas which  have  been  hit  by water scarcity for  quite  a  long time  are reached  by DAWASA network  supply in the two   regions they  serve  include Kibamba - Kisarawe  water  project, which  include a six million litres water storage reservoir worth 10.6bn/- constructed and launched recently by President Magufuli. The  project  has surpassed Kisarawe’s water demand of  1.2 million litres per day and has as well enabled over 1,300 residents of the district to get connected to the reliable water  network making  precious  liquid  woes become a thing of the past to residents. The completion of Kibamba 10 million litres water storage reservoir and booster station at  Kibamba in Dar  es  Salaam has also boosted water  services and  network  expansion in Dar es  Salaam and Coast regions including Kisarawe  District,  which  is among  the beneficiary areas. Furthermore,  as part of achieving the 95 and  85 per cent of people with access to safe and clean water in urban and rural areas by 2020 respectively,  within  this year DAWASA will construct  a reservoir tank with the capacity of 1.5 million litres at Mkuranga, which  targets  to serve  around 25,000  people of Mkuranga town, Kiparang’anda, Mwanambaya and  Vikindu after  the completion  of the first phase. In the past five years, there has also been a great increase of safe and clean water production and expansion of its coverage network. DAWASA has also been working on improving the sewerage and sanitation system in Dar es Salaam city whereby it is expecting to launch a mega project of constructing contemporary sewerage plants as part of its effort to ease sewerage congestion in the city. Report unveils that the authority is going to launch three projects of constructing modern sewerage plants at Jangwani, Kurasini and Mbezi Beach areas as part of extending sewerage network coverage in the city especially in the areas which are not in the network. Dar es Salaam city official sewerage network only covers 10 per cent and that the three projects to be established in Jangwani with the capacity of 200,000 litres per day, Mbezi Beach (16,000) and Kurasini (12,000) respectively, will enable DAWASA to expand the network to 30 per cent after the first phase of the projects. There are many other strategic mega projects   which are  being  implemented  by DAWASA  for  the year  2019/2020  aiming  at   employing  the  government  directives  of  ensuring   95  per cent  of people  living in urban  and  85  per cent in rural  areas  have  water  access  by the  end of the year 2020.