MORE emphasis on health and safety at workplaces is crucial in the wake of Tanzania ascending to the middle-income country category, which requires more human resources to maintain the economic status. Mbeya Regional Commissioner Albert Chalamila stated this when gracing the opening of the seminar for business people and employers in the city. “Employers and traders have to ensure that they observe health and safety issues for their employees consistently, in order to enable the country to prosper in its journey towards higher middle-income economy status,” he said. The Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) organised the seminar as a continuation of a campaign dubbed ‘Vision Zero’ which is aimed at reducing accidents at workplaces. “ A middle income economy largely depends on healthy workers, something which constitutes basic capital for driving such an economy,” he stated. OSHA Director for Safety and Health, Mr Alex Ngata, said the seminar was expected to broaden common understanding of issues of safety and health between the authority and employers and traders in Mbeya city. Apart from educating the participants, the OSHA used the platform to hear from the stakeholders on their challenges and views on the operations of the authority. On his part, OSHA Director of Training, Research and Statistics, Mr Joshua Matiko, stated that between 2013 and 2019, the authority recorded a total of 1230 accidents at workplaces. The accidents affect production at workplaces since the injured workers are forced to stay at home while recovering. For instance, the report shows that between 2013 and 2019, each injured worker stayed at home for an average of 53 days. Mr Matiko said it was established that most employers do not keep record of the number of accidents that occur at their workplaces. The production sector leads in having a big number of accidents at workplaces, something which propelled the authority to come up with the special programme for educating the stakeholders.