A TITANIC political battle within CCM primaries begins today, as aspirants begin to pick nomination forms at different levels. The party’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary,  Mr Humphrey Polepole, yesterday raised a red flag against the cadres who are currently posting their posters and fliers to market themselves ahead of campaigns. Political temperatures will start to gain pace today, as CCM parliamentary, councillorship and representatives in the Zanzibar House of Representatives start picking up nomination forms. Literally spitting fire at a media briefing session, he cautioned that aspirants  for political positions who shall continue posting their fliers and posters in the social media prematurely, risk being reprimanded. The CCM Ideology and Publicity Secretary also used the occasion to challenge other political parties to borrow a leaf from CCM by conducting their meetings openly, so that Tanzanians can see the leaders who will be their flag bearers in both the Mainland and in the Isles. Just two days ago, the ruling party conducted meetings that were beamed live by local radio and television channels, the most captivating ones being the election and endorsement of CCM’s presidential candidates - incumbent President John Magufuli, who is seeking  re-election for the second term in office and Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi, who is seeking Zanzibar’s top post. This, according to political commentators, exhibited an admirable manifestation of  political maturity, democracy and transparency. At a fully packed news conference, Mr Polepole reiterated the party’s stance on the war against corrupt officials within the party, as he gave a marathon comprehensive schedule for collection and returning of nomination forms for aspirants of parliamentary, councillorship and representatives in the Zanzibar House of Representatives as well as Special Seats Members of Parliament. According to him, CCM had planned that nomination forms be collected beginning today and July 17, before allowing party organs from the ward, district and regional levels to conduct a thorough and rigorous process to have the competent and efficient political cadres within the party who can compete with their counterparts in the opposition and deliver a landslide victory. What remains key on decision making organs after CCM aspirants pick up nomination forms are political committees from the ward, district and regional levels. However, according to Mr Polepole, the party’s Central Committee’s decision will be final. Those aspiring to be nominated as flag bearers on the position of Member of Parliament and Representatives in the Isles will have to cough up about 100,000/- according to Mr Polepole - the party’s spokesperson. On the position of Speaker of the National Assembly and Speaker of Zanzibar House of Representatives, aspirants will pay about 500,000/- while councillorship aspirants will only be required to produce 10,000/- when collecting nomination forms.