TANZANIA’S Civil Aviation sector has recorded tremendous feats in the past five years notably increased revenues and airspace security. The installation of ultra-modern radar systems in major airports has greatly enhanced surveillance of the country’s air space by almost 100 per cent. President John Magufuli’s fifth-phase regime has also orchestrated the construction of new airports and currently rehabilitates several others with the aim of improving the infrastructure and attracting more businesses for increased revenues. The execution of these projects is in line with the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) election manifesto, which pledged to trans form the aviation sector by collaborating with the government and private sector towards implementing the air transport strategic plan. During his election campaign in 2015, Dr Magufuli also pledged to complete rehabilitation of runways at Shinyanga and Sumbawanga airports and execute second phase construction of Tabora and Kigoma airports as well as embarking on construction of Msalato International Airport in Dodoma. The installation of the 67.3bn/- surveillance radars in four major airports in Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro, Mwanza and Songwe has enabled the country to monitor its entire aviation airspace and boost revenues. With the installed radars, Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) was projecting to collect 80.2bn/- during this financial year. Previously, the country had only one radar installed at JNIA in 2002, which had a surveillance capacity of 25 per cent, leaving 75 per cent of the country’s airspace unsecured. But the installed radar systems have enhanced safety and national security. Dissolving the 11th Parliament in Dodoma recently, President Magufuli revealed that the government has completed installation of the radar systems in Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro and Mwanza, while the work at Songwe Airport was in final stages. According to Dr Magufuli, the new radar will enable the country to increase air traffic safety and security and also to generate revenues. “The new radars will attract more aviation companies to use our airspace and therefore increase revenues,” he said. On air transport, Dr Magufuli said ultra-modern terminal III building at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) and rehabilitation and expansion of Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and Abeid Aman Karume in Zanzibar were ongoing. Tabling the budget estimates for the Ministry for Works, Transport and Communication for the 2020/2021 fiscal year, Minister Isack Kamwelwe said the government has invested in improving air transport, to ensure that Tanzania becomes an aviation hub for East and Central Africa. “The country has continued to observe national and international safety and security regulations in our airports, making Tanzania’s airspace safe, thus attracting investors in the aviation industry,” Eng Kamwelwe said. The minister said, guaranteed safety in airports, aviation companies and service providers have made the country’s airports free from security threats and be used as transit points for drug trafficking and government trophies. He detailed that the government has also continued to construct and upgrade airport infrastructure in the country. “The works, which have been so far completed include terminal III building at JNIA and rehabilitation of Mwanza Airport, while preparations for the construction of Msalato International Airport is underway,” he said. Either, the Minister said the construction of other airports in Songea, Kigoma, Shinyanga, Sumbawanga, Tabora, Iringa and Musoma are at different stages of implementation. “Out of eleven airports which have undergone comprehensive feasibility study, four of them are in different stages of implementation. These are Songea, Musoma, Moshi and Iringa airports,” he said.