YOUNG Africans Assistant Captain Juma Abdul has urged the team’s supporters to never despair because their club next season; Will be in top form to win titles. Yanga were held to a 1-1 draw by Mtibwa Sugar at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro on Wednesday to slightly tighten their second place. It was left back Adeyum Saleh who flattered the curve in the second half to enable his side claim a point from the tense battle. The draw made Yanga to continue running at the second position after collecting 69 points from 37- game outings. Haruna Chanongo netted the opener for the hosts in the first half after utilising well defensive blunders committed by Yanga defender Saidi Juma Makapu who after the match, bursted into tears for gifting away the simple goal. They will be in action again on Sunday against Lipuli at Samora Stadium in Iringa to wrap up the season’s assignment of which they have failed to bag any silverware. On the other hand, struggling Mtibwa Sugar had to win the match to be on the safe side as far as resisting relegation is concerned but their final game on Sunday will help to give a clear picture of which teams will join Singida United at the First Division League (FDL). However, speaking after the game, Abdul admitted that their season ending matches were very tough for them (players) and supporters at large. “We know that this season was not for us, but I want to assure Yanga fans wherever they are that next season, we will be better to make them happy and win titles. They should not lose hope,” he said. About the match, he said their aim was to win and take home all three points but that never materialised hence sharing a point with their opponents was inevitable. “The good thing is that no player from our side is injured and that gives us hope to do well in our final game on Sunday and we believe that the coach has seen where we went wrong so that in our upcoming match, we can excel,” he said. In a related development, Yanga Chairman Mshindo Msolla said he was surprised with the recent allegations that he has resigned from his responsibilities at the club. “Yesterday (Tuesday), I received many calls from people asking to verify whether I have resigned or not. I am still chairman of Yanga and such rumours should not be welcomed,” Msolla said. On his part, Mtibwa Sugar coach Zuberi Katwila said the outcome was bad to them as they desperately needed to produce nothing less than the victory. “We have conceded a very silly goal as our opponents were clever to start the dead ball quickly which surprised my players in the process. “The cancellation goal completely affected our game plan and despite pushing hard to add one more goal, it was too late for us. We just need to wait until the final day of the season (Sunday) to see our plight in the contest next season,” he said.