REPEATED advice on the need to reduce the number of teams in the Mainland Premier League to 16, an advice that was constantly ignored has finally been proved right by the on-going league which is set to end any time from now. Out of 20 teams, less than 12 are out of the relegation tunnel with the rest peeping into the yawning pit. Singida United, which was launched with pomp and pageantry, has already gone into the pit. But the chances of six teams---Alliance FC, Mtibwa Sugar, Ruvu Shooting, Mbao FC, Ndanda FC, Mwadui FC and Lipuli FC, of remaining in the premier league hangs in the balance. And, the reason for the unprecedented poor showing in this league is very simple, and that is, the difference, in points, between the six teams is very narrow and all the six teams heavily depend on the two matches each has in hand to cross the bridge. Those who have been advising the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to reduce the number of the teams from 20 to 18 next season and subsequently, to 16 teams in the 2021/2022 season have been basing their argument on the lack of quality of almost half of the teams in the league. And, one of the main reasons why the quality of our teams leaves a lot to be desired is because of the refusal by not less than ten teams to establish soccer academies. And, when I talk of soccer academies, I mean scientifically established institutions in which, the children are instructed by coaches, who are specifically trained to instruct children on how to play soccer and in accordance with modern game. The quality of the teams people are talking about will never be realised as long as teams, and in particular, well established ones continue to ignore establishment of soccer academies. There is for instance, no reason why long established clubs like Mtibwa Sugar, Kagera Sugar and Coastal Union continue to ignore establishment of soccer academies. When Singida United was first established, those behind the club spoke of their determination to take the club to new heights. During the time, I wrote in one of my sports columns that the best way of not only getting Singida United to the top, but also to keep the club at the apex was through the establishment of a soccer academy. And, if you consider the time Singida United has remained in the local premier league, had they established a soccer academy in the following year, the young players would have long started coming out of the ‘assembly plant.’ Unfortunately, they did not do what some of us had advised the club to do. In short, since they did not plan for their future, through the establishment of an institution which could have taken care of the club, the club’s management had unknowingly planned to fail. Therefore, what has to pass is not news. It was long expected when they decided to base the source of their players from players produced through the streets. The same thing can be said about other eight teams named above. If they are not careful, the teams may not return to the premier league which is now set to have only 18 teams. But had all the twenty plus teams in the league been competitive, it wouldn’t have been necessary to reduce the number of teams to 16. The premier league’s weakness can be easily noted through the poor performance of almost half of the teams in the league. When you have almost ten teams differing in points by between one and three, then there is something very serious about such a league. Secondly, Simba Sports Club retained the league when it had seven matches to play. That is nothing but outrageous. It is outrageous because Simba won the league because no team could overcome them even if they won seven matches! But there are those who say but even the English Premier League has more or less the same problem. Liverpool were declared champions when there were a couple of matches yet to be played. That does not make them any better. Indeed, if you have a couple of teams in the tail of the league with between 29 and 33 points when the three top teams are over 60 points and those between number four and ten have logged in between 50 and 62 points, then there is something wrong about such a league. In England, the problem is not on soccer academy, but rather on the purchase/registration of players and the kind of coaches they have. All teams that are doing well in the English premier league have foreign coaches with the exception of two, Chelsea and Leicester which are coached by Brendan Rodgers and Frank Lampard. But look at number one and two, Liverpool, Manchester City, Tottenham Hotspurs, Arsenal, Southampton. Managers and coaches for the foregoing clubs are foreigners. Because foreign managers and coaches tend to be more exposed than their English counterparts, they are also better placed when it comes to registration of new players.