DODOMA residents have been advised to register with the Improved Community Health Fund (CHF) to be assured of health care and services at a lower cost. CHF Coordinator in Dodoma Region, Patrick Sebyiga said it was vital for the public to register as part of the country’s policy to ensure that all people access health care services at the lowest cost possible. “The government has put appropriate measures to ensure that all people, especially those in non-salaried employment, including food vendors, boda boda riders and petty traders are able to have access to medical services,’’ said Mr Sebyiga. On the awareness campaigns to ensure that all people register with CHF, Mr Sebyiga said that many people have been informed, and hence the turnout was well. “Many people are much aware of CHF, and we are still intensifying campaigns to ensure that we have everybody on board,’’ he added. According to him, CHF is important in the society, because it ensures that people have access to medical services just by registering at a lower cost of 30,000/- for a family of six people, implying that every member contributes 5,000/- per year. In Dodoma City, its centres are available at the famous Nyerere Square grounds, Majengo Sokoni and Sabasaba area. CHF was established by the government with the support of the World Bank (WB) under the health and nutritional activities. CHF is a “voluntary community-based financing scheme in which households pay 30,000/- to finance part of their basic health care services to compliment the government health financing efforts. The main objectives of CHF was to provide a sustainable financial mechanism that enables communities to contribute to their health care costs, improve their access to health care especially those in rural communities and those in the informal economy. Others are to improve the quality of health care through equipment, supplies, and human resources decentralisation and community empowerment with the aim of improving health care management.