THE Ministry of Agriculture Permanent Secretary (PS), Mr Gerald Kusaya, has commended the Tanzania Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC) for a role it played in improving the cooperatives’ sector in the country. The PS said that the TCDC has managed to bring together cooperative societies’ members, where farmers are now enjoying reliable markets of their crops. “The TCDC has played a key role in uniting members in production, crops’ collections and market improvements,” said Mr Kusaya, while addressing TCDC staff members. He further said the government has witnessed TCDC’s registered massive achievements, especially good governance in improving the cooperative societies, adding: “It started with supervising the members themselves. “We have witnessed positive changes in cooperative societies in the country and people have continued to join the cooperative societies, including Agriculture Marketing Cooperative Societies (AMCOS).” Expounding, the PS added that they have helped especially in collecting accurate statistics on agricultural production and revenues in the District Councils as well as in the Tanzania Mercantile Exchange (TMX). “Through TMX and crop bodies, farmers of strategic crops have tremendously benefited from reliable markets. Mention crops such as tobacco, coffee, cotton and cocoa, whose money collected hit 2.7 trillion/-,” he said. Briefing on achievements and challenges of the Commission, Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Dr Benson Ndiege, cited how the Savings and Credit Cooperative Society (SACCOS) have raised loans to farmers. “Cooperative sector has made significant contributions in terms of creating job opportunities for youth. The Commission has supervised cooperative societies hence to create jobs,” he added. However, Dr Ndiege said at least 90,090 youths have landed in permanent and temporary jobs at the cooperative societies by June, this year against 2018, when the sector created 32,668 jobs. On her part, a Commissioner in the ministry, Ms Salome Tondi, said the cooperative sector would continue to grow and become stronger once they educate more people in the public that is also their priority. Equally, she urged them to educate also their members and farmers on election procedures, and rights and responsibilities of a member willing to join a cooperative society.