JUMPING or leaping can be defined as a form of locomotion or movement in which a body propels it through the air along a ballistic trajectory, scientists say the body’s launch angle and initial launch velocity determine the travel distance, duration, and a height of the jump. Scientists say the maximum possible horizontal travel distance of a body occurs at a launch angle of 45 degrees, but any launch angle between 35 and 55 degrees will result in ninety percent of the maximum possible distance. Through the above mentioned factors, jumping differentiate itself from running, galloping, and other gaits where the entire body temporarily airborne in a long duration and land in a distant location. Scientists say there more than 91 species of antelope but the Eland is one of heaviest of those who dwell in the Savannah of Africa. Reports from the International Union for Conservation of Nature or IUCN indicate that about 25 species of antelopes are facing a great danger of going into extinction. These reports also show that social and economic activities of humans are the main reasons behind the decline of antelope's population in many parts of Africa. As this is happening, some scientists say that nature has its own way of helping certain species from extinction or accelerating their way out of the Earth. This hypothesis is proved by villagers of Namatutwe and Chingungulu in Masasa district where Elands are grazing in the woodlands of Msanjesi game reserve. Wamwera, Wayao and Wamakuwa are the main societies who live in the area around this game reserve which covers an area of about 210 square kilometers. These are Bantu societies who believe that the super natural power love and protect people, landforms, plants, insects, birds and animals. This is a very strong belief which has its roots on the banks of Niger river in West Africa near the Atlantic Ocean where the southern Bantu came from more than six hundred years ago. Through this animistic belief, these societies say it’s very tricky to hunt and kill the Cape eland which they use Mbunju a vernacular name to define the largest antelope of African jungle. Many people in Masasi believed that even when a huge herd of more than 15 animals are standing at your disposal for a shoot and kill it’s almost impossible to hunt an eland. According to traditional law before going into the bush to hunt an eland, the hunter is required to seek ancestral permission. This is done through a special ritual which involves mentioning names of respected traditional leaders who led their people through different wars and natural calamities such as drought and hunger. These are the likes of Machemba, Mataka, Mkuchichika and Magavila whose names are believed to have spiritual power capable of cleaning body, soul and heart of hunters. It’s believed that the prayer will provide a hunter special power over wasps which protect the Cape eland as they walk, live in a nest built on its forehead. In order to get spiritual anointment from the forefathers, people who live around Msanjesi game reserve believe you need to ask for forgiveness from your wife, relatives and neighbors. If you decide on your own to go into the forest to hunt an eland the Mwera, Yao and Makua people believe that you will be lucky to find a herd of elands. Filled with bad evils spirit and curiosity some hungry and irresponsible hunters may attempt to get into Msanjesi forest to hunt this largest antelope. It’s said that as these bad people aim their sharp arrow armed with poisonous spike to the eland, wasp which protect the eland will quickly fly to their backs and deliver a smooth bite using a sharp venomous stinger. Miraculously these bad people will not feel pain from the bites but quickly fall asleep until the herd of Cape elands work out their sight. People in village such as Mikisi, Chipunda, Chingulungulu and Namatutwe believe that if this sudden sleep caught you on the banks of Mbangala river you may be drown by water, eaten by crocodile or lions. It’s widely believed that bulls of Cape eland harbor more wasps than female or juveniles, this is because they carry shorter but powerful horns. In some villages around Msanjesi game reserve use the name Ipakalaha for the Cape eland, they also believe that some inquisitive hunters may shoot and wound the antelope but before making a second shoot it will extraordinarily stand and run for its dear life. From South Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi to Kenya and Uganda professional hunters say the Cape eland is smart antelope which need a smart and powerful gun. They don’t graze carelessly like other antelopes and whenever there is small indicator of danger it’s responsible for every member to issue a stress signal or call to others. From this point the whole herd will quickly embark on jumping from two to three meters high over savannah bushes while running at a top speed of 70 kilometers per hour. With body weight of 1,000 kilograms, scientist say the Cape eland is extraordinarily agile because it out run the Cape buffalo which has the same weight but can only run at a top speed of 35 kilometers per hour. Scientists also say it’s not easy for lions to hunt and kill Cape elands because of their habit of grazing nervously. If a pride of lions try to pursue them they can continue to run a top speed of 40 kilometers per hour for 22 kilometers. These rumors and beliefs about the Cape land are also found in area around Serengeti national park in different wards such as Mbalimbali, Machochwe, Sedeko and Manchira where the Waikizu community lives. This is a pastoralist society who also believes that the Cape elands are protected by an elusive band of wasps which live inside their horns and forehead. Just like the people around Msanjesi game reserve, the Waikizu society of Serengeti believes ancestral permission is required before someone kills an eland. They say before going into the forest for a Cape eland a hunter is required clean himself in a special ritual known as Umusangura. From this point it’s believed that the hunter may go into the forest while carrying his arms and ritual stick. Whenever the hunter sees a herd of elands he is required to break the stick into seven small pieces which are thrown toward the antelopes. If it’s a right day for one eland to die it will stand still while others are running allowing the hunter to kill it smoothly. The Waikizu traditional laws don’t not allow killing of a pregnant female or a bull which is associated with her, if you accidentally kill one of them it will fall on its chest. This is a clear message to the hunter that he has just killed a wrong prey and laws and customs to abandon the carcass or got brutal punishments from ancestors. The Ikizu also believe that if you accidentally kill a wrong a Cape eland it will destroy medicinal fat material called Isomusyi which surround its heart. Scholars say the said symbiotic relationship between Cape Elands and Wasps in Serengeti national park and Msanjes game reserve in Mtwara need scientific research. The Cape eland is also available in Mikumi, Udzungwa, Ruaha, Saadani, Katavi, Tarangire, Lake Manyara, Rubondo, Mount Kilimanjaro and Serengeti national park. rstanslaus@yahoo.com