TANZANIA Association for Government Communication Officers (TAGCO), has joined other State leaders and public in mourning the untimely death of Tanzania’s third phase President Benjamin Mkapa. TAGCO, in its statement released in Dodoma and made available to the ‘Daily News,’ sent condolence message to President John Magufuli, Mkapa’s widow, Mama Anna Mkapa, and the whole family of the deceased as well as all Tanzanians for the loss they have encountered. A statement by TAGCO Secretary, Mr Abdul Njaidi, said that President Mkapa who passed on at a Dar es Salaam hospital in the wee hours of last Friday, will be remembered by many achievements, one of them being introducing information and education departments in all public institutions. “It was under his administration that an emphasis was put to ensure information and education departments are established in all public institutions. Hon Mkapa oversaw well the matter and ensured every public institution has an Information Officer, whose main responsibility was to release information about their respective institutions. As of now, almost all the public institutions have information officers,” said Mr Njaidi in the statement. However, TAGCO appealed to all information officers, who are members of TAGCO by their positions, to pray for the late President Mkapa and cherish what he did to the nation, including accomplishing his tasks with great professionalism. Apart from establishing the information and education departments at public institutions, the late Mr Mkapa served under the information industry from 1966 when he was appointed the Editor of The Nationalist. Later on he became the Managing Editor of the Government-owned newspaper– The ‘Daily News’, founding Director of Tanzania News Agency (SHIHATA) and a Minister for Information and Broadcasting at diverse stints. “Farewell Mzee Mkapa, we will always cherish your contributions in the information and communication sector in Tanzania. The Lord giveth, the Lord taketh, may his name taketh away, may his name be praised,” concluded the statement by TAGCO.