KURASINI Heat and DTB continued to the command the race for the Regional Basketball League (RBA), title with convincing victories in the matches held at Bandari courts over the weekend. Playing with determination, Kurasini Heat defeated UDSM Outsiders 57-48 in a hotly contested encounter, while DTB M rallied to beat Mabibo Bullets 66-59 in a thrilling encounter at the same venue later. Speaking after seeing off UDSM Outsiders, Kurasini Heat skipper, Erick Lugora lauded his team for a commitment that enabled the team to win a tough match. According Lugora, that was the third victory for his youthful side. In that Kurasini Heat began twice to come from two quarters’ down and emerge victorious at the end of the game. Kurasini Heat took a lead in the first quarter with 19-15 and maintained it in the second quarter with 10-8, but things changed in the third quarter as UDSM Outsider claimed a 15-10 lead in the third quarter before Kurasini Heat coming strongly in the final quarter with 16-10 lead. In that game, the team’s skipper Lugora led the scoring showdown with 16 points followed by his team mate Isaya Aswile who notched 13 points while Luis Shoo who pumped in 13 points was the top scorer for UDSM Outsider. The second match between DTB and Mabibo Bullets also thrilled basketball fans at the venue. However, it was Mabibo Bullets who began well the match, claiming comfortable lead in the first and second quarters, but DTB reorganised to win the third and fourth quarters with Alex Mbwana playing a vital role in their victory. Vijana City Bulls had a bright evening at the venue as they raked a hefty 88-42 victory over DB Young Stars. Vijana led in all four quarters, starting with 21-15 lead in the first quarter and went on to lead 30-11 in the second. They scored 18 against 9 in the third quarter and finished the last quarter with 19-7. Jonas Mushi  was the match’s top scorer with 21 points followed by Haji Mbegu who carved 16 points while Tumaini Mosha who scored 18 points, was the top scorer for DB Young Stars.