IT must surely be nice to hold a record but perhaps not what this lady, IM, got widely known for. She is described as: “a brave woman who walked through the valley of the shadow of death. She is Tanzania’s first officially confirmed Coronavirus patient”. Her story, titled “Tanzania’s first ‘official Covid-19 patient is a successful entrepreneur”, is narrated in the Custodian (July 14, p. 15), by a reporter based in Arusha. The reporter must be a devout Bible reader, for he uses a phrase from Psalms, 23:4: “Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me”. Her feats as a business woman would make any budding entrepreneur, green with envy, for she is: “a degree holder, wife, mother, and development activist cum entrepreneur who has invested heavily in education and sports”. She has encouraging advice for all of us, as quoted by the reporter: “If one really wants to do something, ‘he or she’ always can. Where there is a will, there is ‘away’”. The two sentences above need some minor surgery. In the first sentence, since the reporter has used the pronoun “one”, he cannot sneak back to “he/she”. He has to stick to “one”. So the sentence should read: “If ‘one’ really wants to do something, ‘one’ always can”. The second sentence is actually a proverb: “Where there is a will, there’s a way”. Yes, it is “a way” not “away”, the latter reminding one of football tournaments: a game home and a game away. The proverb means that if someone is determined to do something, he will find a way to accomplish it regardless of obstacles. This takes us to the article in the Good Citizen, July 10 edition (p. 8), where a columnist narrates the determination that European explorers had to locate the source of the Nile. The article is titled: “Quest to ‘cite’ Nile source and compromises with slave traders”. There are those of us who believe that the source of the Nile is the river Kagera, which flows into Lake Victoria (Lweeru) from some hills in Burundi. Its waters are known to cross the Lake and flow out at Jinja, Uganda. But that is neither here nor there. The heading for the article is rather intriguing since we believe the columnist was thinking about seeing the source of the Nile (sight), rather than referring to it or quoting something (cite). So it should be modified to read: “Quest to ‘sight’ Nile source and compromises with slave traders”. “Site”, “cite”, “sight” are homophones, words that sound the same but have different spellings and meanings. When used as a verb, “sight” means to manage to see or observe (someone or something); to catch an initial glimpse of, such as to sight the ice-capped peak of mountain Kilimanjaro. The article makes very interesting reading, narrating the efforts of Dr David Livingstone to “discover” the source of the Nile while heading to the wrong directions towards Lakes Nyasa, and Tanganyika. Among the many problems he faced, was that of porters: “So unscrupulous were the porters that they ‘not only’ deserted Livingstone’s caravan at the greatest hour of need.” Now, it is a well-known aspect of English sentence construction that when you encounter the phrase “not only”, you expect to find “but also” somewhere as you progress reading. This is called a correlative conjunction, used to present two related pieces of information. In this, (and in another) sentence in the article, “but also” is missing. Instead, we unexpectedly find a full stop, and another paragraph. We conjecture that the writer intended to join the two consecutive sentences which, in the article, are, separated by a full stop: “So unscrupulous were the porters that they ‘not only’ deserted Livingstone’s caravan at the greatest hour of need, ‘but also’, immediately upon their return to Zanzibar, rushed to report what they claimed was Livingstone’s death…..”. We are promised a continuation of this story, so stay put. Or go sightseeing this weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com