NCBA Bank Tanzania Limited (NCBA) has unveiled a new logo and tagline as it officially commences its banking operations as a merged entity. This follows final approval for the merger between NIC Bank Tanzania Limited (NIC Bank) and Commercial Bank of Africa Tanzania Limited (CBA) effective Wednesday, 8th July 2020, and the issuance of a commercial banking licence for NCBA Bank Tanzania Limited from the Bank of Tanzania. The approval by the regulator and the issuance of the licence by the Bank of Tanzania has paved way for NCBA Bank Tanzania Limited to officially start operations. NCBA’s Tanzania designate Chairperson, Mr Sharmapal Aggarwal said ‘‘NCBA Bank is a stronger and larger universal bank, with the financial strength, expertise and regional connectivity to put our customers first through an expanded range of products and services’’. He noted that NCBA Bank inspires greatness through digital innovation and a can-do attitude that empowers customers to ‘Go For It’. The bank fosters successful personal relationships with customers, offering depth and breadth of best-in-class products and services for all segments of customers, be they Personal, Business or Corporate. “NCBA banks is on ambition, potential, drive, self-belief and continuous improvement. We are the go-to bank for go-getters, those with self-drive, a pioneering spirit and those striving to make things happen,” he added. NCBA Bank’s designate Managing Director/CEO, Ms Margaret Karume said that the new brand identity will allow the combined entity leverage on the strengths, values and historic legacies of the former two brands. “We are pleased to unveil our new inspirational logo, as part of our journey to bring our merger under one unified banner. The new NCBA logo and visual identity will be rolled out gradually across all our customer touch points,” she said. She noted that the name and logo reflect NCBA’s deep roots and experience in Tanzania and the region as a whole. It also represents the ambitions of the bank and NCBA Group to become one of the leading banks in Tanzania, as well as across the African continent. Following the merger, the bank will now be a Tier 2 in banking institution, offering a wider range of services as it leverages on the strengths of the former institutions The bank is in the final stages of harmonising its systems so that customers can enjoy seamless services across all channels in Tanzania. “Our ambition is that by the end of quarter three 2020, all NCBA customers will experience the same service levels regardless of their previous relationship at NIC Bank or CBA,” Ms Margaret Karume said. The integration of the NCBA Group businesses in Uganda, Kenya and Rwanda has been completed. NCBA Bank Group PLC operates a network of more than 100 branches in five countries, including Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Ivory Coast. Serving over 40 million customers, the NCBA is the largest bank in Africa by customer numbers. Over the next one month, the bank will finalise the rebranding of their external branch signage across Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Arusha and Zanzibar.