ACCESS to markets and an increase in agricultural productivity has been identified as the most viable areas, where adoption of digital agriculture solutions should be emphasised. Addressing the 44th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) participants yesterday during the closure of the exhibition, Zanzibar Minister for Trade and Industries, Ambassador Amina Salum Ali, said the two areas were critical for agriculture to flourish. Ambassador Ali said digital solutions will enhance linkages between producers and key-value chain actors and as a result, increase farmers’ revenue. She urged the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade), to embrace technology and ensure information reaches farmers in time as well as other stakeholders for them to make appropriate decisions. “Just like the way you conducted virtual Business to Business (B2B) meetings during DITF, you should use the same technology to equip practitioners in the agriculture sector with appropriate knowledge,” she advised, adding: “Farmers need the information to increase their yields or produce high-quality products as well as add value to their crops; it is high time we begin to export finished goods and not raw materials.” Expounding further, she said agriculture is the backbone of Tanzania’s economy accounting for more than one-quarter of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and it also plays a big role in the provision of raw materials to feed industries. As Tanzania was categorised as a lower-middle-income country, she said, that means the country must increase the capacity to produce and process products so that it can move on to the next stage as well as increase power and creativity. Earlier, TanTrade board Chairperson, Dr Ng'wanza Kamata, thanked the main sponsors of the fair, NBC Bank as well as other companies, who stepped in during the preparations. “We received 57,608 visitors on Sabasaba day this year, while  during the same period last year we received 53,454. Some of them also gave their proposals  for improving the next fair, as well as services offered by exhibitors," said Dr Kamata. According to Dr Kamata, 'Sabasaba' was a very special day for the nation as it also marks the day Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) was formed, a move which after seven years assisted the country to gain independence. Trade and Industry Permanent Secretary, Prof Riziki Shemdoe, said the ministry through TanTrade was still working on better ways to improve DITF. “Through virtual B2B meeting, buyers and sellers were linked, during which potential buyers of 100 tonnes of tumeric and 10 tonnes of cardamon were identified,” he said. Prof Shemdoe further said that as the meeting has demonstrated success, plans were underway to continue utilising such an opportunity even after DITF. The next DITF will be held from June 28th, 2021 to July 13th, 2021. The number of foreign exhibitors at the 44thDITF decreased to 43 compared to 520 last year, while local exhibitors also decreased from 3,250 in 2019 to 2,837. Foreign countries that participated in the fair were Turkey, Syria, India, China, UAE and Ghana.