THE Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) said they are satisfied with the competitiveness in the top flight league urging the same tendency to continue next season. This was said by the board’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Almas Kasongo who insisted that despite the champions being identified, the fighting spirit among teams in the league is still high. “You can see that currently, there are about four teams which are Young Africans, Azam, Namungo and Coastal Union all fighting to end the season on the second place. “All these are indicators that the level of competition has not gone down and will continue to be like that till the end of the season while the other battle is seen at the bottom of the table for teams which want to shrug off relegation,” he said. He again pointed out that teams which are in the middle of the table are also playing lungs out to finish the season in the top ten pack a development he described as healthy for the top flight league. “This is exactly what we want to see such that the level of competition should never drop just because the champions have been declared but rather teams should fight hard until the last match of the season. “I hope that next season, the competitiveness in the league will double as other teams will come up stronger to challenge those which have done well this season,” said Kasongo. He then encouraged teams to do smart player signings so that they can be able to bring the much needed resistance next term. “We all know that Simba are the season’s champions hence this should be a challenge for other teams in the league to work harder and be able to win the title next term just like what Simba have done,” he said. Kasongo also observed that when the league starts, each team thinks of clinching the title but as the contest unfolds, they begin to divide themselves basing on their respective performances. Already, TPLB announced that next season, they will strictly enforce club licensing so as to uplift the level of football in the country.