TRIBUTES are continuing to stream into Tanzania following the death of former President Benjamin Mkapa, with United Secretary General Antonio Guterres, describing the deceased as having been an experienced diplomat and a respected regional peacemaker and advocate of reconciliation. According to a press statement issued by Mr Guterres, Spokesperson Mr Stéphane Dujarric de la Rivière, the secretary general was deeply saddened to learn of the death of former President Mkapa. “The Secretary-General is deeply saddened to learn of the death of former President of the United Republic of Tanzania Benjamin William Mkapa. At this time of loss, the Secretary-General conveys his deepest condolences to the family of the former President as well as to the Government and people of the United Republic of Tanzania,” the statement read in part. Mr Guterres said the late Mkapa was instrumental in facilitating the mediation for the East African Community- led inter-Burundian dialogue, under the leadership of President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda. He said Mr Mkapa was part of the African Union’s Panel of Eminent African Personalities that brokered an agreement following the disputed 2007-2008 general elections in Kenya. Mr Mkapa was also a member of the Panel of Eminent Persons appointed by the Secretary-General to review and enhance the role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). Uganda President Yoweri Museveni, in his twitter account, said: “It is with a lot of sadness that I heard of the death of our brother, H.E Benjamin Mkapa. I started working with H.E Mkapa in 1967 when we were university students and he was the chief editor of the Nationalist newspaper.” The embassy of Ireland to Tanzania said Mr Mkapa was their long-term friend and a leader who cared deeply for his beloved country. The Deputy Speaker of parliament, Dr Tulia Ackson, was among leaders who used their social media platforms to share their condolences on the demise of Mr Mkapa. She said Mr Mkapa led the country with integrity, honesty, commitment and hard work and that by doing so, he fulfilled his purpose in the world. “You fought a good fight, Mr President; you led this country with integrity, honesty, commitment and hard work, to fulfill your purpose in this world. We will miss you Baba,” she mourned. The Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Innocent Bashungwa, said Mr Mkapa was a role model to most of the young leaders, and that he would continue to cherish all good things that he had learnt from the fallen great leader. He said Mr Mkapa had died at a time when the country was still in high need of his wisdom that he used to share during his lifetime. He was ready to listen and advise all young leaders who needed to get his wisdom, he is a hero that Tanzania and Africa at large have lost,” he said on his social media accounts. Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender Elderly and Children Ms Ummy Mwalimu said he was praying for his soul to rest well and his family to get strength during this trying period. The Simiyu Regional Commissioner, Anthony Mtaka, recalled the initiatives of the late Mkapa played for the greater interests of the country and that those who had the privilege of meeting him benefited a lot from his wisdom. A similar message was conveyed by the Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Mr Albert Chalamila and his Iringa counterpart, Ally Happi, who said Mr Mkapa played a great role in grooming young leaders as well as boosting the country's economy. The young leaders say they would continue to walk in the footsteps of the late former president, who was an icon in many different spheres. For its part, the Uongozi Institute said Mr Mkapa was a major contributor to the institute’s programmers and that his legacy on tirelessly advocating for African solutions to African problems will never be forgotten. The High Commission of The United Kingdom to Tanzania also offered their condolences to his family and all Tanzanians for this loss, noting that the deceased will be remembered for his tireless contribution to regional peace and security. “With deep sadness, the High Commission joins President @MagufuliJP& all Tanzanians in mourning the passing of former President Benjamin William Mkapa. The late president was a dear friend of & a staunch believer in the social & economic prosperity of the EA region,” read the tweet of the Kenyan High Commissioner to Tanzania Mr Dan Kazungu. Mama Zakia Meghji, in her twitter account, said: “Today I & Mama Zakia Meghji offer our deepest sympathy to the family of President Benjamin #Mkapa& to the people of #Tanzania. He was a true leader who worked tirelessly for the advancement of #Africa until his last breath, for that we say thank you Flag of Tanzania #RIPMkapa.” Burundi's new President Evariste Ndayishimiye on Twitter said; “I am deeply saddened by the demise of former President Benjamin Mkapa. May God give the strength to his family, President John Magufuli; and all the Tanzanian and African People in bearing this great loss.” South African President Cryril Ramaphosa, on behalf of the Government and People of South Africa, has sent his condolences to the Government of Tanzania following the death of retired President Mkapa "Mkapa was a visionary, peaceful, liberal and proud African leader." "During his tenure, the Tanzania Law and Human Rights Centre was established and I became the first Director in 1996, so Mkapa is a man who cares deeply about human rights." Minister of Tourism Hamisi Kigwangalla posted, “I have received news of the passing of Mzee Benjamin Mkapa (President of Tanzania 1995 - 2005) with great sadness. I send my condolences to the family, relatives, friends and all my fellow Tanzanians. Rest in peace our father!''