THE Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), through its subsidiary company (Tanoil) plans to construct two filling stations in Dodoma, which will be part of 100 stations expected to be set up countrywide. Speaking recently, Tanoil Manager Kapuulya Musomba said one of the stations to be set up in Dodoma was expected to be constructed near the government city of Mtumba. “We have requested for two plots from the Dodoma City Council to set up two filling stations to provide services to people. One of the stations is located near the government city,’’ he noted. This, according to Mr Musomba, is part of the implementation of the company’s robust plan to start distributing and selling fuel as part of the government’s measures to improve TPDC and bring fuel services close to people and at affordable costs possible and make fuel available all the time. Equally, the government through TPDC plans to set up 100 filling stations in the next five years. Some district councils have already earmarked areas where the filling stations will be constructed. In fulfilling the ambitious plan, TPDC through Tanoil will collaborate with all district, town, municipal and city councils to ensure it opens filling stations countrywide and puts in place proper infrastructure for storing and supplying fuel. Tanoil is a subsidiary company of TPDC established and incorporated in Tanzania. It is a company limited by shares solely owned by the government. Currently, Tanoil owns several petrol stations and is mandated to undertake commercial activities related to midstream and downstream oil subsector in Tanzania which include refined petroleum products, strategic petroleum reserve and strategic investment in oil business. Recently, TPDC Managing Director, Dr James Mataragio, said during the 2020/21 fiscal year, TPDC is expected to accomplish the construction of two filling stations in Singida and Geita regions and continuing with its efforts to look for land in Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Dodoma and Morogoro to conduct its business. Equally, TPDC has also constructed other stations in Segera and Muheza in Tanga Region, Makuyuni and Makumira in Arusha Region, Singida, Geita and Mara regions. Currently, all filling stations are owned by TPDC by 100 per cent