STROKE can happen at any time and place and can come on suddenly with devastating effects. It’s the most common cause of adult disability but the good news is that you can stop the brain damage caused by a stroke if you act quickly. That’s why it’s important to know the warning signs of stroke and to get help right away if you see them. Fast action can also limit permanent damage to the body. Heart attack and stroke are caused by interruptions to the normal flow of blood to the heart or brain the 2 organs that are essential to life. Without access to oxygen rich blood and nutrients the heart or brain cells begin to malfunction and die. This cell death can set off a series of harmful effects throughout the body and the changes ultimately lead to the familiar symptoms of a heart or brain emergency. Stroke can be very disabling and can rob you of your very essence because the brain makes us who we are. The most common symptoms of heart attack include; sustained, crushing chest pain and difficulty breathing. It might also cause cold sweats, a racing heart, and pain down the left arm, jaw stiffness, or shoulder pain. Many don’t know that women often have different heart attack symptoms from men. For instance, instead of having chest pain during a heart attack, women may feel extremely exhausted and fatigued or have indigestion and nausea. They have a vague sense of gloom and doom, a sense of ‘I just don’t feel quite right and don’t know why’. Sometimes stroke happens gradually, but you’re likely to have one or more sudden symptoms like; numbness or weakness in your face, arm, or leg, especially on one side, confusion or trouble understanding other people, difficulty speaking, trouble seeing with one or both eyes, unable to stay balanced or coordinated and severe headache that comes on for no reason. At the first sign of any of these symptoms, fast action by you, someone you know, or a passerby can make a huge difference. Understand that if the heart is starved of blood for too long generally more than 20 minutes the heart muscle can be irreversibly damaged. You need to be in the hospital because there’s a risk of cardiac arrest [your heart stopping], which could be deadly. At the hospital, the health providers can administer clot-busting drugs and other emergency procedures. There are two major kinds of stroke with different warning signs and symptoms but all types have one thing in common: a loss of blood to a part of your brain. The 2 main types of stroke are Ischemic stroke that arise when blood vessels are blocked, usually by a blood clot and hemorrhagic stroke which is caused by a broken or leaking blood vessel in the brain. Ischemic Stroke is the most common strokes and you get them when a fatty substance collects in your arteries and narrows them. This is called atherosclerosis which slows the flow of blood. As the blood pools, it clumps and form clots and the artery gets blocked. Besides atherosclerosis, some other risk factors that can raise your chances of getting an ischemic stroke are: having irregular heartbeat, history of a heart attack, problem with your heart’s valves, injury to blood vessels in your neck and blood clotting problem. Signs of ischemic stroke depend on which part of your brain that is affected and includes sudden weakness on one side of your body and trouble talking, walking, seeing or thinking and loss of balance or coordination. You’re more likely to have an ischemic stroke if you’re over age 60, have high blood pressure, heart disease, high cholesterol or diabetes, smoke and having a family history of strokes as well as having a history of irregular heartbeat. On the other hand, haemorrhagic Stroke happens when there is bleeding in your brain that damages the nearby cells. The most common causes are: high blood pressure, injury, bleeding disorders, cocaine use or aneurysm (a weak area in a blood vessel that breaks open). Haemorrhagic stroke symptoms usually increase gradually over minutes or a few hours. Common symptoms include; intense headache that some people describe as “the worst headache they’ve ever had”, confusion, nausea or throwing up, sensitivity to light and passing out. You’re more likely to have this type of stroke if you’re over age 65, have high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes that’s not under control as well as if you are obese, had a stroke in the past, have a family history of strokes, smoke or eating of unhealthy foods. Some risk factors for heart attack and stroke are within your control. Treating them can dramatically reduce your risk. Studies show that making healthy lifestyle choices can help prevent these medical emergencies from happening in the first place. Eat a healthy diet rich in protein, whole grains, and fruits and vegetables, and low in saturated fat. Get regular physical activity; have a healthy weight; don’t smoke; control cholesterol; manage blood pressure; and keep your blood sugar at the right levels. Because stroke attacks the brain, a person who’s having a stroke may not be able to call out for help. The stroke victim’s best chance is if someone nearby recognizes the signs and seeks medical help. Immediate treatment could save someone’s life and improve the chance for successful recovery. Get to know the signs and symptoms of these health threats. If you think you or someone else might be having a heart attack or stroke, get medical help right away. Acting fast could save your life or someone else’s. The Author, Racheal Masibo, is an Assistant Lecturer at St John’s University of Tanzania (SJUT)-School of Nursing, Dodoma. Email: rackelmasibo@ yahoo.com Mobile: 0717513598