KAGERA Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Prof Faustin Kamuzora, has appealed to Tanzanians to invest much in health by seeing into it that they regularly check their health status to keep off contracting non communicable diseases (NCDs). While launching a book titled “Siri ya Binadamu kuishi Miaka Mingi- Nguzo 72 zinazoshikilia Uhai wako,” published by Tanzania Educational Publishers Ltd (TEPU) in Bukoba Municipality, he further urged the public to inculcate a culture of reading books and get enlightened on heath tips. “Data indicates that many people die early because of ignorance and free lifestyles. We must take efforts to control these diseases, including malnutrition in children,” he added. Elaborating, the RAS noted that the rate of malnutrition in children in the region registered as 42 per cent against 34 per cent that at the national level, shows that a lot must be done to address the situation, saying: “We must do a lot to invest in nutritious food to correct this.” It is estimated that the country will lose 20bn US Dollars by 2025 if the nutrition situation does not improve. In contrast, by investing in nutrition and improving the population’s nutritional status, the country could gain up to 4.7bn US Dollars by 2025. Given the importance of nutrition in the overall physical and cognitive development of children, there is a need to focus on the first 1,000 days of a child’s life to prevent the negative effects of malnutrition from becoming irreversible. This requires a multipronged approach to address risk factors, which include inadequate food, illnesses and poor access to safe drinking water. His list also included poor sanitation and hygiene, high rates of anemia and low body mass index among adolescent girls and pregnant women. However, Prof Kamuzora assured Tanzanians that, currently the availability of drugs in Health Centres, and Dispensaries is 98 per cent and on the way 100 per cent target by end of December, this year. “We thank President John Magufuli for his efforts to improve health sector by allocating a big budget for buying drugs and equipment raised from 31bn/- to 269bn/- and this is a big achievement,” he added. Expounding, he said there was a need to focus more on primary prevention at population level targeting interventions by reducing public exposure to tobacco smoke, reducing alcohol intake, salt intake and promoting healthy diets as well as physical exercises.