CCM National Chairman, President John Magufuli, has warned over the risk of disrupting the Union due to disunity among Zanzibaris, calling for solidarity and unity among the members of the ruling party and the general public. He gave the advice here on Friday in his acceptance message to the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) after being endorsed as the party’s flag bearer for the October-scheduled Union presidential polls. “Without Chama cha Mapinduzi, there won’t be a Union in Zanzibar. There won’t be development either,” he said, urging Zanzibaris to cement their unity ahead of the general elections. President Magufuli pointed out that capitalists were envious of the semiautonomous island and that without the Union, there wouldn’t be Unguja or Pemba. He said members of the party and the general public were obliged to uphold the much fancied revolution of Zanzibar and unity to sustain the economy. His call came shortly after the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi’s top organ, the National Executive Committee (NEC), voted Dr Hussein Mwinyi as its flag bearer for the Isles’ presidency in the forthcoming election. President Magufuli showered praise on the outgoing revolutionary government President, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein for building a unique legacy “Dr Shein has demonstrated gentleness, generosity, and humility. He is a very learned leader who has been cooperative throughout his administration,” he noted. Dr Magufuli further remarked that under Dr Shein’s leadership, Zanzibar has had attained admirable advances, recording a growth rate averaging 7 per cent throughout. Dr Shein’s administration has seen Zanzibar embarking on a massive exploration of its petroleum reserves in the deep sea, procurement of modern ships, improving social services, including education, health, water, communication and electricity. Dr Magufuli told the National Executive Committee that he had worked closely with Dr Shein to seek solutions to challenges facing the country and the Isles. He expressed optimism that through unity, CCM would emerge victorious in the forthcoming elections. On his part, Dr Shein told the executive committee assembly that the internal process within CCM had made the party stronger. Dr Shein publicly denied knowing any member among the five nominees who appeared before the central committee for scrutiny. While it was rumoured that Dr Magufuli was supporting Prof Makame Mbarawa in the presidential race, Dr Shein was also alleged to be rallying behind Hamis Omar. Both presidents publicly denied being in support of either of candidates and urged the 160-members’ committee to pick whoever they deemed fit for the post. Dr Shein explained that he had pursued clean politics and efficient leadership throughout his tenure as a president, vowing that the party would emerge victorious in the forthcoming polls. “I did not pick a candidate and will not pick anyone since I believe that every member has the right to be nominated and voted for a leadership post,” he said.