IT was a mission accomplished for Simba when they were awarded the Mainland Premier League throne being an acknowledgement of the club’s pedigree with 21 league titles to their name. The Msimbazi Reds, as Simba are fondly referred to, have won the title with six matches remaining in a gruelling season marked with surprises and upsets to their closest challengers. This has added a dimension to their feat. We also take this opportunity to congratulate them for winning their third hat-trick of league titles. Winning the title means Simba will represent the country in next year’s CAF Champions League, the continent’s premier club tournament. The highest stage Simba reached as Tanzanian envoys was in 1993 when Simba reached the final stage of CAF Cup (now CAF Confederation Cup) before losing at home to Stella Abidjan, while their latest success was 2018/19 season when they reached the quarter final stage of the Champions League after clearing group stage hurdle. This calls for adequate and serious preparations by Simba, who have a ticket to play in the CAF Championship League and go beyond the quarter final stage they achieved two seasons ago. Simba must take the championship as a call for better creativity which will make the team cope with the continental level opponents and as well be a team whose matches can attract a huge number of fans. We laud the team’s unity on the pitch and that on the terraces too also deserves special mention. We laud Simba for the outstanding performance, the team needs support to enable it get desired success as the country’s envoys. Simba should aim higher than winning the league, and we believe by trying the continental conquest is the achievement the soccer-loving Tanzanians would like to see now. We also laud Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for running well the league and create a platform that enabled Simba to win the title as the best team. They have made the nation proud and we hope they will leave no stone unturned in making Tanzania sparkle in the continental level matches. Reaching the quarter finals of a tournament two years ago was a big achievement that now forces Simba to work hard to go above that stage this time around. Focus, plan well and with a quality squad, Simba can achieve more than that as the country’s envoys.