PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has ordered the Karema Port contractor, Xiamen Ongoing Construction Group, to work day and night for timely completion of the project. The port which is constructed along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Tanganyika District, Katavi region is scheduled to be completed in 2022 at a cost of 47bn/-. Mr Majaliwa made the instructions yesterday when laying a foundation stone for the project whose completion is set to be Tanzania’s economic gateway to the neighbouring country, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). “The port is meant to stimulate movement of goods, services and people between Tanzania and DRC as well as boosting trade between the two parts,” he said, adding that the government would continue walking the talk. Equally, the Premier has issued 21-day ultimatum to Tanzania Port Authority (TPA), Immigration, Police Force, Ministry of Minerals, Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and Tanzania Shipping Agency Cooperation (TASAC) to resume services at the Ikola area, in a bid to attract guests from DRC. He also instructed all officers to relocate nearby project areas for the sake of improving efficiency in service delivery. “You may construct houses for all staff working for Karema port. You need to have proper arrangement for this,” urged Mr Majaliwa. The move, according to the prime minister, would enable business persons from DRC to be inspected upon arriving at the port and allowed to proceed with their businesses after completing all legal procedures. “We encourage our neighbours from DRC to bring whatever they have here for the sake of promoting bilateral trade and the long standing relationship,” he said. Moreover, the prime minister urged Tanzanians to invest in the district and region at large basing on the opportunities that are going to be brought by the completion of the Karema port. Areas of investment that can be exploited include hotel and hospitality as well as other social services including saloons, transport and communications. The prime minister also assured that the government will compensate wananchi who were evicted to pave the way for the construction project. “None of those who were evicted would be left behind, the government is set to pay you all. So there is no need for any of you (residents) to block the project. Over 50m/- is needed for this,” he assured. Adding; “The government has been implementing a number of flagship projects in various areas across the country, so this 50m/- won’t be a burden”. For his part the Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Eng Isack Kamwelwe said his docket is implementing the 2015 ruling party-CCM’s election manifesto that goes in line with the five year National Development Plan that entails construction of the Karema port. “We are also planning to upgrade the Mpanda Airport, in Katavi region for it to have international standards. The project is set to start next month,” said the Minister. The Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC) Mr Juma Homera commended the fifth phase administration for its commitment to open up the region by improving infrastructures and other social services. Moreover, Mr Majaliwa who was on a day working tour in Katavi Region officially launched Mpanda Plaza Commercial Mall, which belongs to the National Housing Corporation (NHC) built in Mpanda  municipal at a cost of 2.8bn/-. On yet another development the Premier graced the cotton purchasing season for the year 2020/21 at Kakese Primary Cooperative Society in Tanganyika District. 