AS Algeria commemorated its Independence Day yesterday, its ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Ahmed Djellal, dwelt much on the role of the business community in strengthening economic diplomacy and bilateral relations between the two countries. The historical relations between Algeria and Tanzania can be traced back to the 1960s, when Algeria in 1964 joined the very first countries to open an Embassy in Dar es Salaam. The two countries are linked by excellent relations of fraternity and solidarity which draw their strength from their common struggle for freedom from colonialism and against discrimination. They also share an unshakable principles laid down by the Charters of the United Nations, in particular the peaceful coexistence between the States, the defence of justice in the world and the African Union, the political settlement of conflicts and the non-interference in the internal affairs of countries. Mr Djellal stated yesterday that as far as the cultural cooperation is concerned, Algeria grants annual scholarships to Tanzanian students in various specialties, after being convinced that by investing in the human resources, it is investing in the future, for a prosperous Africa. After 58 years of independence, Algeria has achieved tremendous development in all spheres in various plans and programmes, which in turn have provided the country with a modern infrastructure and investment in education and training developments. His list also included advances in agriculture and engagement in new information and communication technologies. However, the ambassador suggested that it was necessary for the international community to lay a great foundation, where developing countries will have their own say as essential actors in the consolidation of the international peace and security. He further said the arrangement would make the nations as defenders of their aspirations, ambitions and fundamental rights, as they also work tirelessly to achieve common objectives of development-stability and decent life in Africa and the general world. Algeria advocates a balanced and pragmatic policy in its relations with partners within the framework of a win-win approach based on mutual respect, reciprocity and the balance of interest.