AS the Vodacom Premier League 2019/2020 season ends today, title sponsors Vodacom Tanzania said they are impressed with the way it has been run and are looking forward to another prosperous season. This was said by the firm’s Head of Brand and Communication, Nandi Mwiyombella who said so far so good according to the implementation of the items signed in the initial contract. “We do work abreast with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) on how to improve the top flight league which we do sponsor and we are satisfied with their works. “But, there are some things which need to be improved further and soon, we will sit on the same table with them (TFF and TPLB) to find best ways on how to improve such things,” she said. She, however declined to go into details on what areas they think should be boosted saying it is between them and Mainland Premier League operators in the country. On whether they plan to pump in more cash for the sponsorship, Mwiyombella said for now, they do not have such plans hence the available sponsorship amount will not change. “As you know, we signed a three year contract to sponsor the league and we have just completed our first season meaning that we have other two seasons to go but for now, the deal will remain unchanged,” said she. The mobile company splashed 9bn/-to sponsor the biggest football contest in the country for three years meaning that in each 3bn/-is disbursed every season. It was a sigh of relief for many clubs upon hearing that Vodacom Tanzania will again be the title sponsors of the league especially after the previous season ending without key sponsors. However, time has come for clubs to seek private sponsors and stop relying on the amount provided by the league sponsors through ensuring that they write good proposals to convince potential sponsors out there to come to their rescue. For example, big teams like Simba, Young Africans and Azam do have private sponsors which make it easy for them to run their activities well that is why travelling by air transport to accomplish their match assignment in far areas is not a big deal for them.