AS thousands of Tanzanians continue to pay last respect to the departed former president Benjamin Mkapa, the government has asked members of the public to show up for the event on Monday, so as to give the chance for government leaders to do the same tomorrow. Government Chief Spokesman Dr Hassan Abbasi told reporters on Sunday that, Tuesday is reserved for top government officials and other international dignitaries to pay their last respect. He said the event will be led by President John Magufuli before transporting the body of the former Head of State to Lupaso village in Masasi District, Mtwara Region for the burial ceremony due on Wednesday. “Tanzanians are asked to continue coming to Uhuru Stadium to pay their last respects, the stadium’s doors are open from 8 am,” he said. Dr Abbasi who doubles as Permanent Secretary for the Ministry for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports said the government has set up arrangements for special groups to pay their last respect to the fallen hero. He said the special groups include ministers and their deputies, Regional Commissioners, permanent secretaries, Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Directors and Executives. Others in the list are all public entity leaders, members of Civil Society Organisation (CSO), religious institutions, religion leaders and leaders of political parties. According to Dr Abbasi, academicians and students who wished to come as a special group, and all journalist groups including government communication officers are also invited for the exercise today. “It is known that the former president was an exemplary journalist and also President Nyerere’s Press Secretary,” he added. He added that the government is still receiving tributes across the world including Uganda, Namibia and various International Organisations, universities across the world; all embassies representing their countries in Tanzania have offered their tributes. “Leaders have also started confirming their attendance for tomorrow’s event,” he said. Meanwhile, various ambassadors representing their countries here have continued to visit and sign the book of condolences at the home of the late Mzee. Majority of envoys said the country has lost a great leader, patriotic and a mediator of peace in Africa and the world at large. The Zambian High Commissioner, Mr Benson Keith Chali said that Zambia is deeply saddened by the news of Mkapa’s sudden demise as Tanzania and Zambia are brothers. “From the beginning Mwalimu Nyerere and Kaunda were brothers and we have continued to be brothers and when you lose a brother you are deeply hurt. We will remember Mzee Mkapa as a leader who has maintained peace in various parts of Africa including Kenya, Burundi, DRC and elsewhere in the world,” said Mr Chali. “…We as Zambia extend our deepest condolences to his family, the Government of Tanzania and Tanzanians in general …… we all mourn this great tragedy.” The Ambassador of Denmark to Tanzania, Ms Mette Dissing-Spandet said the late President Mkapa was a brilliant leader for Tanzania, a friend and role model to various nations. “For us as Denmark he was a friend and we will always remember him for his love,” said Ms Dissing-Spandet. “Mzee Mkapa was a peace activist in Africa and he will be remembered for the good he did as he did it with effort and professionalism, May God rest his soul in peace,” remarked the Ambassador of Algeria in Tanzania Mr Ahmed Djellal.