THE window for registration of new football players in Europe opens on 25th this month and will last for more than two months, according to the European soccer governing body, UEFA. What this means is that if what Mbwana Samatta’s father said this week about his son moving out of Aston Villa is anything to go by, then Tanzanians would know it in less than ten days from today. Samatta has not had easy in the English Premier League since his move from the Belgian club, Genk. He has not had the ease he had at the Belgian club where he was the top scorer in the league to the point of facilitating his club into the UEFA Champions League. The English Premier League has proved too tough for him. And his problem has arguably been compounded by poor team work in his club. In terms of his individual performance, Samatta has shown marked improvement from where he was when he was playing for Belgian club. Whenever he has had the ball, he has more often than not succeeded in making timely passes to his colleague. One thing that has impressed me about the Tanzanian skipper is his ability to pass the ball to his colleague even when he is tightly marked. He has managed to do so times without numbers and regardless of the position he has had the ball, during aerial battles and on the ground. Commentators have repeatedly commented, positively, over his ball skills. And had his team been a team player, Samatta should have scored not less than ten goals. Unfortunately, his club is very poor when it comes to playing as a team. From the middle field to the front, the club is full of players who play to the gallery rather than playing to win matches. In fact, it is not surprising that they are where they are in the league. The players are so fond of keeping the ball that they have constantly attracted rough tackles from their opponents. At home, the local premier league is expected to end any time from now, to usher in the opening of the local transfer window that allows a registration of new players. One hopes that our clubs will have learnt massive lessons from the kind of players they had had in the league. Two weeks ago, I wrote in one of my sports columns the need for our clubs to refrain from using middle men/women in registering their players. It is better to involve their technical bench in recruitment. If they did that, they are very much likely to get the right crop of players. For no member of a club’s technical bench would bring a poor player in the club. I’m quite sure that the coaches have been noting players from other clubs they think can fit in, in their clubs as one of their sources of getting new players. Other sources of good players can be located in schools, soccer academies and in the streets. But for the latter, you can only go for players who are less than 15, who would be easy to train and not to players who are already over 15. Early this week, Simba fans appealed to their club management to retain most of the present crop of the squad. But I differ with them for one main reason. The present Simba squad may be good. But how good are they? What have they done to be described as a good squad? Is it because they beat their traditional rivals 4-1? But most of us who know both clubs, know why Young Africans lost so heavily. Fine, their players are not as good as what Simba has, but let us not forget that this is the same team that held Simba to a two all draw and later edged them out 1-0 in the return leg of the league. If that is what Young Africans had done to their rivals, why did they lose so heavily and of all the things, in a derby? It is this that should make Simba take their victory against their arch rivals differently. Yes they inflicted a heavy loss on their rivals, but their victory is not a measure of their strength. They still need to strengthen their squad not for the local league, but for the CA F Champions League or else they would be knocked out in the preliminary rounds as it has happened this season. The same Young Africans team that Simba beat last Sunday went beyond Simba in the continental clubs tournament. That should be adequate in bringing Simba back to their senses. That they still need to rebuild their club if they want to remain relevant. Besides, they also need to know that their objective should be to go beyond the stage they reached two years ago when they went beyond the group stages of the Champions League. This is the time for the Premier League clubs to rebuild their respective teams and not to continue ‘to live on past, good performance.’