SIMBA SC signed off their last Mainland Premier League match of the season at the National Stadium with a classic football, notching a 5-1 win over struggling Alliance FC. It was an entraining day for the Msimbazi Reds passionate fans, who turned up and took photos with the top flight league trophy, their third straight and 21st title in history. Simba players provided various gifts to fans as a gesture to appreciate for their support Simba are now expected to travel to Tanga to face Coastal Union in their next match before winding up the season against Moshi based Polisi Tanzania. Thereafter, Simba will fly to Sumbawanga to take on Namungo FC in the final of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), set on August 2nd at Nelson Mandela Stadium. In yesterday’s match Meddie Kagere scored twice, while Luís Miquissone, Deo Kanda and Said Ndemla scored a goal apiece as Simba registered a hefty victory to post 84 points from 36 outings. Alliance only goal was netted by Martin Kigi. Simba started with their usual free flowing football with neat shot passes. However, the visitors threatened in the 9th minute, when Kigi outpaced defenders but his shot sailed wide. In the 15th minute, Juma Nyangi latched onto a long pass from Michael Chinedu and raced down the right, before coming face to face with goalkeeper, Beno Kakolanya but he dragged his shot wide. A minute later, Simba responded with a fierce attack but Miquissone saw his shot brushing off the top bar. It was a swift move and Clatous Chama laid on a back pass for Miquissone. Simba were ahead in the 22nd minute, through Kagere’s penalty. The spot kick was awarded after goalkeeper John Mwenda bundled down goal bound Miquissone. After half an hour mark, omnipresent Miquissone clever shot was cleared off the line by a defender. In the 38th minute, Alliance pulled level through Kigi, who capitalised on a defensive mix up. Jonas Mkude lost possession at his own half and Chinedu threaded a quick pass to the scorer. Who easily beat keeper Kakolanya between the posts. A minute before the breather, Kagere netted the second following a neat passing game. It started from Chama, who set up Miquissone and the diminutive Mozambican laid off Francis Kahata on the left, who also wasted no time to set up Kagere for his 22nd goal of the season. After the break, Alliance came strongly searching for an equliser and in the 50th minute, Kigi almost pulled level again but his shot narrowly missed the target. However, it was Simba, who score in the 65th minute, when Miquissone netted a superb 30 metre drive goal. His looping shot after driving past two defenders was a class for goalkeeper to stop. It was his fifth goal of the campaign. Then, Deo Kanda came in for Kahata and Chama danced and twisted past defenders but failed to make the most from the chance. In the 73rd minute, Kakolanya came off his line and cleared one on one attempt from Kigi. Three minutes later 75th minute Kanda chested the ball down and guided it into the back of the net, finishing off a cross from Kagere for Simba’s fourth of the day and his seventh of the campaign. There was still time for Ndemla to net to fifth four minutes before the final whistle, after being set up by another substitute Hassan Dilunga. The scorer beat keeper Mwenda with his trade mark powerful shot, leaving Alliance Coach Kessy Mziray vividly disappointed. Alliance remained 17th on the log with 41 points from 36 matches and are deep in relegation zone. In other matches held yesterday Azam FC failed to leap frog Young Africans to the second spot after being held to a 1-1 draw by Lipuli FC at the Samora Stadium in Iringa. Azam remained third on 66 points from 36 matches, two points adrift Yanga. Lipuli moved up to 15th on the log with 41 points from 36 matches.