THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), has urged Sumbawanga residents where the finals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), will be played to start creating means of income generation as many people will descend there. Simba will battle it up with Namungo FC in the ASFC finals at Nelson Mandela Stadium on August 2nd next month as the latter have already been granted the chance to feature in the CAF Confederation Cup no matter whether they win or lose the game. Namungo became the first side to step into the finals after booting out Tanga based Sahare All Stars 1-0 in a tense quarter-final match held at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium on Saturday. "Let me seize this opportunity to encourage Sumbawanga people to continue finalising preparations ahead of the big match to make it colourful and memorable like the ones held previously". "They should know that this is a big business opportunity for them since many people will arrive there as such, they need to make sure that they make enough accommodation places, transport services as well as ensuring that they have adequate food to satisfy the oncoming visitors," said TFF's Competitions Director Salum Madadi. Meanwhile, Namungo Head Coach Thierry Hitimana admitted that they have a big task ahead to face Simba in the ASFC basing on the qualities displayed by their opponents on Sunday. "It is going to be a competitive finals against the top flight league champions but usually, finals are fifty-fifty thereby we will fight according to our ability," he said.  He conceded that Simba are now on fire and have been perfect in ASFC as well as in the Mainland Premier League no wonder they are the champions. "But what I know is that in football, there is no copy and paste meaning that the performance shown by Simba today (Sunday) will not be the same against us in the finals as such, anything can happen," he said. He added that he was ready to face any club which could have come on their way in the finals while insisting that playing in finale, each team usually has a fifty-fifty opportunity to win the title. Namungo have been on top pedal since graduating into the top flight league this season and have since achieved a lot by going extra mile to make their debut in CAF Confederation Cup next season.