 THE East African Business Council (EABC) has endorsed the nomination of former Kenyan Foreign Affairs Minister Amina Mohammed for the World Trade Organisation (WTO) director general position. Dr Mohamed, along with other seven candidates from different countries of Africa, Europe, is seeking to replace the current Director General Roberto Azevêdo, who has announced to step down at the end of August. The regional apex body of private sector associations and corporates from the six East African Community (EAC) member countries is of the view that Dr Mohamed joining the WTO this year is timely as Africa focuses on the African Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). “She is a strong advocate of the actualisation of the AfCFTA and has also chaired WTO’s 10th ministerial conference in Nairobi in 2015, the dispute settlement body and WTO’s general council in 2005. Her passion for international trade, exemplary strategic leadership, diplomatic and negotiation skills make her the right candidate for the job,” said Dr Peter Mathuki, EABC Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Director. Dr Mohamed is a lawyer, diplomat and politician. She is presently serving as the Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Heritage and Culture. She previously served as the chairperson of the International Organisation for Migration. She was born on October 5, 1961 in Kakamega, Kenya, to an ethnic Somali family. According to Dr Mathuki, the WTO’s role in the liberalisation of global trade is central towards the growth of trade, investments and competitiveness of the EAC bloc internationally. In 2017, the EAC bloc earned $25.1bn from exports and services to the world and imported $39bn. “Her success to the position will be a great opportunity for the EAC bloc and Africa towards championing the global economic policy to increase the continent’s share in global trade. The business community in East Africa is assured that Dr Mohamed will steer the WTO to greater heights.” “As former Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International Trade of Kenya Dr Mohamed is bold and proficient. It will be a great honour for the continent to have the first African woman as the director-general of WTO,” said Dr Mathuki. Dr Mohamed will push for the implementation of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement that will reduce trade transaction costs for businesses by cutting red tapes, simplifying and streamlining customs procedures for exports and imports. The WTO is mandated to administer trade agreements, trade negotiations, settling trade disputes, reviewing national trade policies, building the trade capacity of developing economies and cooperating with other international organisations. Africa’s active and strategic participation in negotiations at WTO is vital to unlock the economic potential of the continent and increase access to international markets. Other candidates to the position are Dr Jesús Seade Kuri from Mexico, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (Nigeria), Mr Abdel-Hamid Mamdouh (Egypt), Mr Tudor Ulianovschi (Moldova), Ms Yoo Myung-hee (Republic of Korea), Mr Mohammad Maziad Al-Tuwaijri (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) and Dr Liam Fox of the United Kingdom