PRESIDENT Magufuli has continued to prove to the general public that he is indeed a reformist, after ordering an important meeting of CCM’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to be held live on television and in the presence of all media outlets. It was during the meeting when NEC members met in Dodoma City on Friday to elect one CCM member to become the flagbearer for the presidential race in Zanzibar and another candidate for the Union presidential election. Traditionally, such meetings were held behind closed doors, raising questions and doubts on the credibility and fairness of the screening process of CCM candidates, especially those representing the party in presidential elections. Before the meeting kicked off, CCM Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally announced that he had planned to order journalists out of the conference room immediately after taking pictures and initial briefings. However, having received an order from CCM National Chairman President Magufuli that instructed journalists to witness the voting process by NEC members, he withheld his initial plan, making the process historic. The new developments come in the wake of strong reforms masterminded by President Magufuli who doubled as CCM national chairman after taking over the party reigns in 2016. In the middle of the meeting, CCM national chairman President Magufuli briefed NEC members about the congratulatory text messages and calls he received from outside the country, appreciating the transparency of the process. “When I went out briefly to allow you perform your function, I received calls from Sweden and US and text messages from Germany, appreciating our decision of making this process live on television. This is only done by a political party that has confidence in itself,” President Magufuli told NEC members after reentering the conference hall in CCM’s White House building in Dodoma. Before NEC members deliberated and decided on Union presidential candidacy, President Magufuli had to get out briefly since the process involved his name. President Magufuli called upon other political parties to emulate the good example set by CCM as it helps to build confidence amongst political party members and the general public. CCM Secretary for Ideology and Publicity Mr Humphrey Polepole, later said what CCM National Chairperson President Magufuli did served as a lesson to other CCM leaders, members and the general public. “The way CCM National Chairperson President Magufuli handled the process has given us a lesson. We have learnt from Magufuli on how to carry out our activities,” Mr Polepole said. That was the first time in CCM’s history to conduct the process of electing its candidates for the presidential race live on television. Through its National Executive Committee (NEC), CCM elected Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi to be the presidential flag bearer in the forthcoming election in Zanzibar. Dr Mwinyi defeated Khalid Mohammed and Shamsi Vuai Nahodha in a transparent process witnessed all over the world. The party’s organ also endorsed President Magufuli as the Union presidential candidate. The two candidates, as per the party’s Constitution, will receive final endorsement during the General Congress that starts its meeting today in Dodoma.