PRESIDENT John Magufuli has appointed Dr Mwinyi Talib Haji as Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Community effective on Saturday. A statement issued by the Directorate of Presidential Communication Unit said that before his appointment, Dr Haji was  the  Director of the Zanzibar Public Service College. It said that Dr Haji is replacing Ambassador Ramadhani Muombwa Mwinyi. He is required to be at Chamwino State House in Dodoma at 10.00am tomorrow. The forthcoming General Election has continued to trigger some new appointments in the government. This week Dr Magufuli made several appointments as some public office bearers quit their posts in quest for political careers. Recently, President John Magufuli said the doors were open for his appointees who wished to contest for various posts in the forthcoming general election. Dr Magufuli revealed  that he had been receiving request letters from a number of his appointees who have expressed interest to contest in the upcoming elections. On Friday President Magufuli appointed Engineer Anthony Sanga as the new permanent secretary in the Ministry of Water, replacing Prof Kitila Mkumbo who has picked CCM nomination forms to seek the party’s endorsement to vie for the Ubungo legislative seat. Prior to his appointment, Engineer Sanga was deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water. Dr Magufuli also appointed Dr Jumanne Fhika as Njombe Regional Commissioner (RC), replacing Mr Christopher ole Sendeka who has picked CCM nomination forms, seeking endorsement to vie for the Simanjiro legislative seat. Prior to his appointment, Dr Fhika served in the Office of the President. On Wednesday, the president appointed new regional commissioners for Dar es Salaam and Manyara, respectively, replacing  Mr Paul Makonda and  Mr Alexander Mnyeti, who have ventured into electoral politics. Mr Abubakari Mnenge becomes new Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner while Mr Joseph Mkirikiti has been appointed the RC for the northern region of Manyara.