MAJORITY of people in Zanzibar have expressed their satisfaction with the triumph of Dr Hussein Mwinyi as Chama Cha Mapinduzi’s (CCM) flag bearer in the October-scheduled general elections. Politicians and ordinary people interviewed welcomed the victory of Union Minister for Defence and National Services, saying he is the best choice. Minister of Water, Prof Makame Mbarawa, who entered the top five, said that the party chose the best candidate who will serve all Zanzibaris irrespective of residential locations and political affiliations “The only important thing is to conduct peaceful elections slated for later this year,” he said. Tunguu House of Representative who is also Deputy Minister for Education and Vocational Training Mr Simai Mohamed commended all party committees for a well done job which has helped to come up with a presidential candidate who is connected to the people. He said the good work done by Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM)’s Special Committee of the National Executive Committee, Central Committee and National Executive Committee has led to the choice of the best candidate. Mr Mohamed said that Dr Mwinyi has vast experience in the government because he has served for eleven years as Deputy Minister of Health, Union Affairs Minister and Defence and National Service Minister. “People are happy with the choice of Zanzibar’s CCM presidential flag bearer for the October general election and this was also noticeable even during the election by NEC members,” he said. He said it is his expectations that Dr Mwinyi will uphold the Zanzibar Revolution and strengthen the Union. Minister of State, Second Vice President’s Office Mr Mohamed Aboud, said that the entire process of electing the Isles’ presidential candidate has been fairly conducted. He said basing on his personality, Dr Mwinyi is the best choice for Zanzibaris because he doesn’t condone factions and he hopes that will encourage a hard working spirit among the people. Zanzibar University’s Dean of Faculty Dr Yahaya Hammad said that despite the fact that Dr Mwinyi had never served in Zanzibar government, he doesn’t condone groupings, thus it will help him to build Zanzibar and keep pace with aspirations of President John Magufuli and Zanzibaris in general. Zanzibar High Court Advocate and political analyst Awadhi Ali said although Dr Mwinyi had no record of serving in the Isles Government, it is an opportunity for him to show his capability as a high office leader. Hamad Hamad, Director Zanzibar Chamber of Commerce, said that if Dr Mwinyi wins the presidential post in the coming election, he expects that he will be a good leader who will support the business community. “I am glad that finally Zanzibar has received the presidential candidate it deserves. Dr Mwinyi is an experienced, scrupulous and morally upright politician,” said Juma Iddi Abdallah at Kikwajuni in the city here. He described the newly crowned candidate as a person of high integrity and capable of spearheading the great social and economic achievements, which the outgoing seventhphase President Ali Mohamed Shein is leaving behind. Many Zanzibar residents nodded to the CCM pick, saying the Chahani Member of Parliament for three five-year consecutive terms will be easily salable in the coming general elections. Dr Mwinyi had been one of the most popular names, with high rating for the Zanzibar presidency since the ruling party CCM embarked on its presidential candidate nomination preliminaries on June 15, 2020. “With Dr Mwinyi as our flag bearer in the coming election campaigns, victory for us is inevitable,” chanted one of the ruling party’s fans at Kisiwandui main office here yesterday.