NETBALL resumes actions tomorrow in Tanga with 16 clubs have been drawn in a chase for the National Division One tournament’s title. JKT Mbweni will open the tournament by facing Jiji Tanga at Bandari Club court, and on the same day, Jiji Arusha will lock horns with Police Tanga. The Chairperson of Netball Association of Tanzania (CHANETA), Devotha Marwa told the 'Daily News', that all teams confirmed to participate have already begun training ahead of the tournament. "We have inspected two courts, which will host our competitions and we are satisfied with the work done. We are waiting for July 5th (tomorrow) that is when we can begin the tournament, we hope to have the best competition." "All teams are ready for the game, they are currently training. We are sure that the tournament will be highly competitive and we are going to have a lot of entertainment there." The teams already in Tanga for tournament include JKT Queens, Jeshi Stars, TAMISEMI, Jiji Arusha, Polisi Tanga, Jiji Tanga, Coca-Cola Kwanza, Eagle Queens and Polisi Kigoma. Others are Uhamiaji Tanzania, Mabibo Queens, Nika Queens, Polisi Morogoro, JKT Mgulani, JKT Mbweni and Smart Queens. Whereas; Zimamoto, Makutupora Dodoma, Polisi Arusha, Jiji Dodoma, and Bandari Dar es Salaam said they will not participate. CHANETA said Tanga Regional Commissioner (RC), Martin Shigela, will grace the tournament as a chief guest. Marwa has also expressed her happiness regarding the support they have received from different stakeholders and encouraged them to continue supporting the sport. Earlier before staging this tournament, CHANETA had postponed the national level competitions twice in December 2019 and March 2020 which were to be held in Simiyu due to insufficient resources to fulfill the goal. These tournaments were to draw top teams from all regions. Marwa has committed herself to make sure all measures regarding Covid-19 scare are taken so to make everyone enjoy the game. "It is great to have these competitions back after a long while. Due to Covid-19 scare after the government suspended all sports activities for about ten weeks. "We are going to make sure all measures are taken to prevent ourselves from the spread of this virus as directed by the Ministry of Health."