THE Zanzibar Premier League finally took off on Thursday this week after days of doubts which had clouded the restart of the league on account of financial problems. Initially, reports from the Isles had it that the league may not restart due to lack of funds for running the league. The reports emerged even after the Isles soccer body(ZFF) had received a shot in the arm from the government to the tune of 20m/-. According to the Isles soccer body, the most financially affected clubs were smaller ones, meaning that they could not finance even training of their players. Therefore nothing is more comforting than the resumption of the Isles Premier League which is critical to the development and growth of Tanzanian football. We all know how strong Isles clubs have, for years been. You remove Isles soccer players from the equation and you will have a poorer Taifa Stars. Unfortunately, like their Mainland counterparts, Isles players have also been heavily affected by poor form. And we all know the source of the problem. It was due to the failure, on the part of the players, to train individually in their respective homes during the sports lockdown. After the imposition of the sports lockdown to curb the spread of the deadly corona virus pandemic, players were supposed to have continued with their training, individually, in their respective homes. Most the Isles players if not all did not. And so were their brothers in the Mainland. This just goes to demonstrate the extent of lack of discipline among our soccer players. I sometimes ask myself, do these players know that they have the shortest time to work in the world? I ask myself the foregoing question because most of these soccer players have nothing else to earn in their livelihood except through playing football. Yes, most of them are either professional or semi professionals, meaning that they are paid by their clubs to do what they do every week, namely, play football. But football players who would continue playing as semi or fully fledged professional players beyond 35 you can count them in five fingers! In fact, players who can continue playing as professional soccer players beyond 35 are the most disciplined players. But it is an open secret that we don’t have such players not only in the Isles, but also in the entire United Republic otherwise you wouldn’t be reading this piece today! Therefore, the question we need to be asking ourselves is; if the extent of lack of discipline among our soccer players is such that they don’t even worry about their own future, then where are we headed as a nation? Indeed, if a football player who knows that there is nothing he can bank on for his own livelihood except his ability to kick around, professionally, a ball and, that ability has a fixed, time limit. Yet he does not have a care in the world, how does the society he lives in classify such a youth? We need to ask ourselves the foregoing question because it is important we deal with the question now before it’s too late. For what would the youth and others of his like do after clocking 35, when it now becomes impractical for him to continue playing soccer, professionally, on account of biological developments? If football players who know pretty well that they have nothing to bank on for their livelihood after 35, but yet still don’t work on their game to ensure that they earn as much money as possible once their limbs refuse to do what they want to do on the pitch, then we have a massive problem. We have a massive problem because these are the very youth, young men we have always proudly said that the future of our nation heavily depend on them. And the question we now need to once again pose is; are these the kind of youth we are banking on, youth who don’t train hard when they are told to? As we already know, the Isles Premier League is on. But in the words of handlers of Mlandege and KMKM teams, after the end of the match in Zanzibar yesterday, it would take the players quite a while to recover their form. In that match, Mlandege edged out the military men by a lone goal. But the question, as I have already noted, is not about players from both teams recovering their forms, but rather why did they lose the form in the first place? Of course, one can understand members of the KMKM. They are already employed. They don’t need football for their livelihood. But what about Mlandege players? Do they have something else to bank on for earning their livelihood apart from soccer? If they have in the form of employment outside football, then that is another thing. But what about if they don’t have a sideline thing to bank on, outside soccer? But even if they had, does it make sense to engage in something, half-heartedly? How would they earn points and win the Isles Premier League if they don’t work hard on the pitch? • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through: tagalileattilio@yahoo. co.uk 0754279655