HE was vigilant, and upon meeting him, you would feel at ease. We are talking about the crusader, a statesman, a fallen hero, Benjamin Mkapa. His charisma, selfdeprecating sense of humour and transparency as well as his courageous heart, partly explain his extraordinary appearance. Mzee Mkapa was one of the Africa’s most revered statesmen, who set a unique record of improving the country’s economy during his 10-year term in office. On Friday, some officials who closely worked with him explained that the fallen hero was a man of his own, citing hardworking, intelligence and patriotism as main features that one would see in his eyes. Former Prime Minister, Frederick Sumaye said Mzee Mkapa was a daring leader. He said privatising big companies was not an easy task. “He focused on improving the country’ economy, and he managed to move his ideas forward, privatisation was one of the policies that faced challenges but in the long run, some of the State companies were successfully revived,” he said. Former Chief Secretary, Ambassador Materns Lumbanga who served alongside Mzee Mkapa told the ‘Daily News’ that the nation had lost a true statesman who gave everything to his nation. “I remember Mzee Mkapa on how he wanted things to move on time, he was very conscious with time, if the meeting was set to begin at 10:00 he would step in the boardroom at 9:55 sharp,” he said. He added that apart from being the Head of State, Mzee Mkapa still listened and agreed on challenges from his subordinates. The former CS said Mzee Mkapa would listen and then act on the matter immediately. “He was a smart President; he was listening and taking challenges, he was such a good and tough leader,” he noted. According to Ambassador Lumbanga, some of the important issues he acted on immediately was the establishment of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and cashbudget system, which helped to manage government expenditures. “Mzee Mkapa was also good at follow ups; he would keep asking for a report on some assignments until they are executed,” he noted. He added that during Mzee Mkapa’s leadership, inflation dropped to single digit while banks’ loan interest rates were also dropped from over 20 per cent to 12 per cent. Ambassador Ombeni Sefue, who is also a former Chief Secretary, said Mzee Mkapa was a person who respected and valued his presidency. “Mzee Mkapa ensured good governance, democracy, fought poverty, corruption and guaranteed development for all,” he said. On diplomatic relations, Ambassador Sefue said Tanzania has maintained good diplomatic relationship for decades due to strong and visionary leaders like Mzee Mkapa. “He maintained good relations, we did not have problems with any country, it is a good thing that has continued until today,” he noted. On resolving problems, Ambassador Sefue said the fallen former President was eager to resolve problems that faced wananchi. “His government started building infrastructure by using its own funds after facing challenges in getting funds from international institutions. Major projects were implemented from that time, the current President John Magufuli was part and parcel of such projects,” said Ambassador Sefue. On the media sector, Ambassador Ombeni said Mzee Mkapa was eager to see competent journalists publishing and airing strong, analytical and well written stories. Mr Ali Ameir recalled that when he was the MP for Donge constituency in Zanzibar, Mzee Mkapa appointed him the Home Affairs Minister and later State Minister (Information) in the Prime Minister’s office. He describes the late Mkapa by three expressions: ‘Keen leader, hardworking, and humanity.’