IN the wake of an increase in violence against children and women in Mwanga District, Kilimanjaro Region, Action for Justice in Society (AJISO), in collaboration with the grassroots leadership, has officially launched and empowered two committees that will deal with the problem. The committees comprise 50 stakeholders from Mwanga District, comprising ward leaders, religious leaders, teachers and students who underwent a two day training session that will enable them to effectively implement the National Plan of Action to end Violence Against Children and Women under a special programme known as ‘tuwalinde’ (let’s protect them). Speaking during the launch of the committees, the Mwanga District Executive Director, Zefrin Lubuva, said violence against children and women has become a big challenge in the district, prompting them to seek assistance from AJISO, to enable them to implement the programme and ensure the committees run effectively. He said the district has 20 wards but only three of them have been covered so far. “We are eager that all 20 wards are reached so that we can jointly tackle the ongoing violence against children and women,” he said. He lauded members of the committees for accepting to take up the responsibility as it is on voluntary a basis, for the benefit of children and women in the community. “ We will continue working with AJISO and any other NGOs that have the same vision of overcoming the violence in Mwanga District,” he said. The AJISO Executive Director, V irginia Silayo, said they received funding amounting to 30m/-from the Foundation for Civil Society which will enable them to implement this programme from June to December 2020. She said that initially, they reached only one ward in Mwanga District and it has since then done a tremendous job that has won much praise from the region’s leadership because of the manner in which they tackled the problem effectively. “Through funding from PROBONO, which is a German based NGO, we were able to implement the Child Protection programme in Dr Asha Rose Migiro Secondary School and trained teachers and students,” she said. According to the director, they formed a Child Protection Policy that was to be used in the school and later they sat down with different stakeholders and reviewed the policy so it could be used by all schools in Mwanga District following its effectiveness in the school. She said AJISO will continue collaborating with government officials in respective areas in implementing the programme to ensure that all the 20 wards are covered by 2022.