ABC were unstoppable on Wednesday when they crushed Police 80-44 in the Regional Basketball League match at Harbourts courts in Dar es Salaam. The hefty victory placed ABC at the helm of RBA League table, leapfrogging Kurasini Heat, who were leading prior to the Wednesday’s shootout. Organised by a Basketball Dar es Salaam (BD) the league that resumed this month after the end of coronavirus scare, has become a four-team affair with DTB and Pazi being among others with a flamboyant start. ABC pointer Enrico Agustino, who commands the top of scorers chart, has already netted 146 total points after adding 23 more points on Wednesday. Isdory Mkwama added 14 points to help his team to jump to the top while Emanuel Gasper and Issa Ismail who had 14 and 13 points respectively, were the key scorers for the Police side. ABC now lead the league table with 10 points after play five matches and they have leapfrogged Kurasini Heat who have settled at the second position with 9 points from 5 matches. ABC started well, the grabbed a 23-12 lead at the end of the first quarter and went to lead 42-20 at the breather. They added 21 points in the third quarter against 8 points garnered by their opponents. They went on to finish the last quarter with a slim 17-16 lead. In another exciting match, Savio humbled Ukonga Kings 61-60 in a closely fought encounter at the same venue. Delighted with win, joyful Savio head coach Dassy Makula admitted it was a hard-earned victory and that came after players worked extra hard. “I must admit that it was one of the toughest matches we have played, many expected us to lose since we fielded youthful squad with the exception of George Tarimo and Joas Maheta who are experienced,” he said. He said he was impressed with the fighting spirit shown by the youthful players in their bid to secure vital points from Ukonga Kings, whose top player is Sudanese Lee Deng. Savio started real well, but their opponents came back strongly later, but much of their efforts were thwarted by Tarimo who managed to take 18 rebounds on the day.