THE name of the flag bearer for the Zanzibar Presidency through the CCM ticket is set to be released today, after the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meets to scrutinise names of aspirants for the General Election scheduled for October. The 160-member committee will be seating under CCM national Chairman, Dr John Magufuli, to cast votes, to determine who amongst three names that passed through the party’s Central Committee (CC) yesterday would emerge victorious. The three names remained confidential yesterday, but the party’s Political, ideology and Publicity Secretary Mr Humphrey Polepole, said the names will be made public during the NEC assembly. “The Central Committee (CC) has convened its meeting today (yesterday) under the Chairmanship of Dr Magufuli by recommending three names to the NEC. The names will be available tomorrow (today) whereby one name out of three will be nominated by the committee for approval during the planned general congress,” he said. Thirty one cadres returned the nomination forms but only five names penetrated the National Executive Committee’s Special Committee scrutiny. The name remains highly confidential. The Publicity and Ideology Secretary urged the party members to remain calm as the top organ gets busy to scrutinise all possible aspirants. “If you act smart, just expect that we can make new changes tomorrow,” Mr Polepole remarked. He pointed out that members will be informed on three cadres and will be asked to vote for one name. The full gathering of the powerful party’s central committee reviewed qualities of each of the five members who exhibited interest to run for Zanzibar presidency on CCM ticket. According to the CCM constitution, NEC is also entitled to nominate at least three names to vie for the union presidency, however, in contrary only President Magufuli is the sole candidate. President Magufuli is seeking a second term in office and stands unchallenged. It will also be charged with confirming CCM’s 2020-2025 election manifesto. Meanwhile, Mr Polepole told reporters that the party’s CC has received excitedly reports that Tanzania has finally ascended to a lower-middle-income economy country five years ahead of the scheduled 2025 development target. According to the secretary, the CC has expressed appreciation to the government under the leadership of President Magufuli and Dr Ali Mohamed Shein for spearheading the development programmes. The committee said the new development has been recorded at the time when the world faces a serious health crisis the Covid-19 pandemic.