THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), are currently in discussion with owners of the venues which host league matches on how to improve the pitches and dressing rooms before  next season. This was disclosed by the federation's Secretary General, Wilfred Kidao after holding a meeting with sport stakeholders in Dodoma recently. "As we smile about the achievements we have made so far, we should not forget about focusing much on sports infrastructure which is also among the five top criteria of club licensing. "In view of this, we are holding discussions with owners of various venues so that next season, we should see big improvement especially on the pitch and dressing rooms which in many playing venues are in bad shapes," he said. He added that as TFF, they are taking a leading role to ensure that the upgrade of pitches are properly done and he also disclosed that the maintenance of the Ilulu pitch in Lindi which hosted the finals of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) was singlehandedly done by the federation. "Now, we are also fully involved to upgrade the status of the pitch at the Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga so that we should have the entertaining ASFC finals. "At least, we have reached at a promising stage as far as our talks with the owners of the league hosting venues are concerned and soon, we will announce to the public which venues we will start with to renovate," said Kidao. Again, Kidao cherished the good cooperation they receive from government to ensure that football standards in the country are uplifted. "We cannot implement anything without fully engaging the government and as you know, some of the venues which host league matches are owned by the state like Uhuru Stadium, the National Stadium and others hence we enjoy good working relationship with them," he added. On his part, DOREFA Secretary General, Khamisi Kissoyi lauded TFF for their plans to establish their office in Dodoma a move he said will accelerate the pace of football development there. "I have been told that the area for the construction of the office is already available and if it was not the case of Covid-19 pandemic, the works could have already begun," he said.