IN my  article  of  last  week,  I  gave  our  esteemed  readers   proper  notice   of  the  culmination  of  the    series  of  articles  relating  to  my  forthcoming  book,  titled  The  story  of  my  life  in  the  Public  Service:  A  Contribution  to  the  Political  History  of  Tanzania”;    which  had  commenced  at  the  beginning  of  January  this  year.   Thus,  we  must  now  move  to  other  interesting  topics. And   since  this  is  our  general  election  year,    It  seems  appropriate  that   we  should   address  the  general  subject   of  elections   in  the forthcoming  discussions  in  this  column;  with  the principal   aim  of  enhancing  public  understanding  of  the  basic  issues  involved  in  this  important  business  of  elections. This  will  indeed   be  useful,  especially   in   view  of   the  extraordinary  enthusiasm  which  has  been  shown  by  the  unprecedented   influx  of  aspirants  who  are  seeking  nomination  by  their  respective  political  parties,  for  participation  in  this  particular  election.  And  this  influx  has,  inevitably,  raised    speculation  regarding  the  factors  that might   have  triggered  this  huge  turnout  of  aspirants,  not  only   for  the  Presidential  election,  but  also,  and    much  more  so,   in  the  Parliamentary  and  the  Local  Authorities  elections.                                                                                                    We   will  investigate  this  exciting  point  in  the  next  article In  today’s  article,  we  will  kick-start  these  discussions  with a  brief   examination  of  the essential  ingredients  of  the  multi-party  electoral  system. The  multi-party  electoral  system It  should  be  common  knowledge,   that  Tanzania’s  electoral  system  was  inherited  from   the  British   system;   which,  essentially,  makes  provision  for what  is  known  as  “Government  by  political  party”;  which  means   that  the  different  political  parties  are  expected  to  actively  compete  in  open  elections;   after  which,   the  winner  becomes  entitled  to  form  the   Government  of  the  day.   Thus,  as   noted  above,  the  most  significant  feature  of  this  year’s  general  election  seems  to  be  the  unprecedented,  very    active  participation  by  large  numbers  of  aspirants  of   different  political  parties  in  these  elections  at  all  levels Participating  in  elections  is,  in  fact,  the   raison  d’etre   for  the  registration  of  political  parties  in  Tanzania.  This   is   specified   in  the  Political  Parties  Act  (no.  5  of  1992),  which  gives  the  following  definition  of  a  political  party:-  “Political  party “  means  any  organized  group  formed  for  the  purpose  of  forming  a  Government,  or  a  Local  Authority,   within  the  United  Republic  through  elections,  and   for  putting  up,  or  supporting  candidates  for  such  elections”.   Thus,  according  to  this  definition,    any  other  group  which  is  not  formed  for  the  purpose  of  participating  in  elections,  does  not  qualify  to  be  called  a  ‘political  party’.  Such  group  could  perhaps  be  called  an  “interest  group”,  or  “pressure  group”,  which  is  formed  for  the  sole  purpose  of  pursuing  the  achievement  of  a  given  specific   lawful  objective. The  hidden  challenges  of  multi-party  politics: •              Many  political  parties,  only  one  basic  policy. The  leading  principle  in  multi-party  electoral  competitions,   is  that  voters  should  select  the  party  which  presents   the  best  policy  options.  This  is  the  first  crucial  ingredient  of  the  multi-party  political  system In  normal  situations,  electoral  competition  requires   that  each  participating  political  party  will  present,  in  its  election  manifesto  and  in  its  campaign  speeches,   some  clearly  defined  policy  positions,  which  will  enable  the  voters  to  make  an  informed  choice   between  the  alternative  policies  being  so  presented  by  the  different  participating  parties. This,  basically,  implies  that  each  participating  party will  endeavour  to  persuade  and  convince  the  majority  of  the  voters  to  vote  for  their  respective  candidates,   on  the  basis  of  the  party’s    attractive  policies,  which  they  will  implement   after  getting  the  coveted  opportunity  to  form  the  Government. However,  in  almost  all  the  developing  countries,  including  Tanzania; ,  in  reality,  there  is  only  one  policy  option  that  really  matters  to  the  electorate;  namely,  the  need  to  enhance  the  social  and  economic  welfare  of  the  people,   by  eliminating  poverty, ignorance,  disease,  and  of  course  corruption.  A  close  look  at  the  slogan  with  which  have  been   used  by  the  different  political  parties   in   the  recent  past,   such  as    CCM’s  “kuleta  maisha  bora  kwa  kila  mtanzania”;  CHADEMA’s  “”Tunachukia  umasikini”;  or  CUF’s  “Haki  sawa  kwa  wote”;  may  appear  to  be  different;    but,  basically,   all  of  them  are  focusing  on  the  same  issues  relating  to  the  fight  against  the  four  common  enemies  mentioned  above This,  obviously,    makes  it  difficult  for  the  voters  to  make  their  choices  on  the  basis  of  the  parties’  policy  differences  between  them,  and  therefore  unable  to  “vote  for  the  party  with  the  best  policies”. A  gentle   reminder  of  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  position. “My  argument  is  that  a  multi-party  system  can  be  justified  only  when  the  parties  are  divided  over  some  fundamental  issues.   Otherwise,  it  merely  encourages   the  growth  of  factionalism Let  us  take  the  case  of  two  major  parties.  Both  have  the  interests  of  the  people  at  heart,  or  so  they  claim.  Both  believe  that  education  is  a  good  thing,  and  that  it  should  be  made  available  to  everybody.    Both  believe  that  medical  care  should  be  within  the  reach  of  all  persons,  and  so  on.    Given  that  fundamental  agreement,  it  would  be  far  more  sensible  if  both  sides  were  to  disband,  and  let   the  electorate  choose  the  best  individuals  from  among  them  all,  and   these  individuals   will  meet  in  Parliament  to  discuss  the  details  of  doing  the  required  jobs,  and  cooperate   fully  in  getting  them  done”  (Mwalimu  Nyerere  in  ‘Freedom  and  Unity’,  Oxford  University  Press,  1966,  page 196). That  is  probably  why,  in  the  absence  of   such  clearly  identifiable  policy  differences  between  the  Ruling  party  and  the  Opposition  parties;  the  latter  have  resorted  to  a    campaign  strategy,   of   merely  calling  upon  the  electorate  “to  remove  CCM  from  Power”. CCM  can,  of  course,  be  removed  from  power  by  the  majority  of  voters  at  a  general  election,  but  this  can  only  happen  in  certain  specified  circumstances,  specifically,   in situations  where  the  voters  themselves  have  been   fully  convinced,  from  their  own  collective  assessment,  that  the  Ruling  party  has  totally  failed    them   in  their  expectations. And   I  submit  that  such  conclusion  will  be  reached    ONLY   when  CCM  has   miserably  failed  to  deliver  on  its  promises,  but   certainly  NOT  as  a  result  of  campaign  demands  by  opposition  parties  for  its  removal. •              The   absence  of   the  requisite  multi-party  political  culture. This  is  the  second   crucial  ingredient  of  the  multi-party  democratic  political  system.  Multi-party democracy  is based on the   proposition that  at certain  agreed  intervals,  say  after  every  five  years;  competitive  elections will be held between  the  relevant   political parties, thus providing  an opportunity  for power either to remain in the hands of the then ruling party, or to pass to another political party or coalition of parties, as the case maybe. The multi-party political culture   requires  that the losing party will form the Opposition in parliament, with  the  function  of  seeking  to challenge the government’s policies and actions therein;   while waiting for the opportunity when they will themselves  win an election,  and form the government of the day This concept   was  plainly   expressed  in  an  article  written  for  the  Commonwealth   Journal   “The  Parliamentarian”   by the then Prime Minister of Grenada, Dr. Keith Mitchell, MP, in the following words:-  “The Caribbean people have long had a reputation for passionate partisan debate in the adversarial form of parliamentary multi-party democracy inherited from Westminster.  But they also enjoyed the reputation   of  playing by the rules,   whereby the  winners  took office,  and the losers  accepted  the results,   and continued   the debate from  the opposition benches  inside Parliament.   But today, passionate political debates are being continued in an alarming number of instances   not in Parliament, but in the streets.    And they are being pressed not by debate, but by demonstrations.    Our acceptance of the Parliamentary system of government is being seriously eroded”. It  has    been my contention,  that this kind of situation is brought about by the lack of the requisite multiparty political culture,   which should therefore be   created, developed, and properly nurtured. This  lack  of  the  requisite  multi-party  political  culture   is  explained  by  the  fact  that  this  culture    is  actually  rooted in the Western countries of Europe and North America. Indeed, experience has shown that in many of the non-Western countries which do not have this kind of culture,  operating  the system  of multi-party democracy has, inevitably,  been  quite   problematic.   To  confirm  this,  let  me  cite   only   two  examples,  quoted   from the Journal of  the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association,  “The parliamentarian” :- (i)  Lesotho. “Ever since the independence of Lesotho, political activity in the country has been partisan in form, and exclusionary in character. Society has  been  balkanized  into new groupings which call themselves political parties,  all dedicated to vying for, and excluding one another from, the  control of state power. Political parties in Lesotho are the antithesis of nation building. This is the origin of the mutual disdain and repugnance that members of different political parties feel for each other, which has produced a basis for political instability that has become a permanent feature of politics in the country”. (ii)    Kenya.   “The re-introduction of political pluralism was one of the greatest political developments in Kenya since independence.  But it now appears that political parties have turned into a liability, not only  stifling democracy,  but  also impeding the transformation of Kenya into a modern society.  Virtually all political parties in Kenya have sacrificed healthy competition and internal democracy,   at the altar of individual aggrandizement.” These examples  serve to demonstrate that the lack of the multi-party culture,  is  a  major hindrance,  and   indeed  a  huge fault line, in  the proper functioning of the multi-party political system through multi-party elections. Multi-party  democracy  requires  the  presence  of  a  strong  Opposition  camp. The  emergence  of  the  “UKAWA”   Coalition  was intended  to  strengthen  the  Opposition  camp.  The  presence  of  a  strong  Opposition  is  indeed  necessary  for  the  vibrancy  of  electoral   democracy. Two  former  Presidents  of  the  United  Republic of  Tanzania,  are  on  record as  having  bemoaned  the  apparent  weaknesses  of  the  Opposition  during  their  period  in  office.  President  Mkapa  (as  he  then  was),  in   his   speech  to inaugurate  the  8th  Parliament,    made  the  following  pertinent  comments  regarding  the  weakness  of  the  Opposition:-  “If  we  do  not  have  serious  political   competition  between  comparable  teams,  we  will  slowly  degenerate  into  political  frivolity”. He  was  referring  the  results  of  the  2000  general  elections,  in  which  the  Opposition  camp  performed    poorly  at  all  levels.  Both   In  the  Presidential  election,  where  CCM  had  obtained  a  huge 71%  of  the  total  valid  votes  cast;  and  in  the  Parliamentary  elections,  where   CCM  has  scored  a  handsome  87.45%  of  all  the  Parliamentary  seats. On  his  part, President   Jakaya  Kikwete  of  the  fourth  phase  Government,  speaking  at  a  new  year  sherry  party  which  he  hosted  for  the  foreign  Diplomats  accredited  to  Tanzania  on  10th  January 2006,   lamented  that  “the  poor  performance  of  the  Opposition  parties  in  the  2005  general  elections  had  raised  great  concern  as  to  whether  Tanzania  was  unwittingly  reverting  to  the  previous  one-party  political  system”. The  results  of  that  general  election  showed   that  in  the  Presidential  election,  CCM  had  scooped  a  premium 80.28%,  leaving   the  seven  participating  Opposition  parties  to  share  the  remaining  small   percentage;  while  in  the  Parliamentary  elections,   of  the  13  participating  political  parties,  CCM  had  scored  an  overwhelming  majority  of  206  parliamentary   seats,  while  only  three  Opposition  parties  were  able  to  obtain  a  tiny  share  of the  remaining   Parliamentary  seats.                                                                 It  is  this  poor  electoral  performance  that  the  former  Presidents  were  talking  about. (will   continue  next  week) piomsekwa@gmail.com   /  0754767576. 