THE government in collaboration with Development Partners has continued to implement projects, which improve water access in cities, regions, districts and local councils. The tasks implemented included building, renovating and expanding current clean and safe infrastructures. With the efforts made, access to clean and safe water in rural areas has increased from 47 percent in 2015 to 70.1 percent in 2020; and in urban areas from 74 percent in 2015 to 84 percent in 2020. In his speech to dissolve Parliament, President John Magufuli stated that during his reign 1,423 water project have been implemented, of which 1,268 are rural and 155 in urban areas. Among the major projects being implemented are the water supply from Lake Victoria to Nzega, Tabora and Igunga, the Arusha Water Project as well as the project to deliver water to 28 cities being completed at a cost of 1.2tri/-. The project was noted as one of the achievements in a pledge made in the 2015-2020 ruling party CCM manifesto by President Magufuli. In the course, it was mentioned that Kisarawe-Kibamba project, has finally acquired a water tank capable of storing six million litres per day, and will serve Kisarawe residents and its environs, which according to statistics; The area requires only 1.2 million litres per day. After the fifth phase government made reforms in the city water authorities, they now allocate 47.5 per cent of revenues, which also go towards financing their schemes. Commenting, Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA), Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Cyprian Luhemeja, said the Kisarawe-Pugu project completion marks the beginning of water extension to Pugu area and would cost 7.3bn/-. Adding: “The extension of this project would see water supply and improvements to areas like Ukonga, Segerea, Banana and others.” On the expansion of Upper Ruvu water project, its completion work at the Upper and Lower Ruvu water treatment plants increased water volume pumped to the city to 586 million litres and Lower Ruvu 390 million litres daily. The oject is part of DAWASA’s plan to address water woes in the commercial capital, Dar es Salaam and the nearby communities in Coast Region. It was noted that Exim Bank of India funded it with 178 million US dollar (over 350bn/-) and involved expansion works at the Upper Ruvu water intake, treatment plant and construction of water pipes and tanks to supply the precious liquid.  For Lake Victoria water project, that is another major water scheme during his leadership is expected to benefit millions of Tanzanians upon completion.  The project   involves pumping of water from the lake to different towns and villages in Nzega, Tabora and Igunga through long pipelines that run from the shores of the lake to the target areas.  In 2019/2020 budget estimates, Minister for Water Prof Makame Mbarawa said some villages such as Isaka and Kagongwa in Kahama and Tabora Region have started to benefit from the project.  He said that 14 out of 40 villages close to the Kashwasa main pipeline were accessing water  and benefiting   38,348 villagers. He added that by April last year the remaining villages had access to water. Prof Mbarawa  further  said that the project of  pumping  water  from   Kashwasa main  water pipeline to  Tabora,  Igunga and Nzega  towns and  Uyui District  at  a cost of  US  dollar  268.35 million  (equivalent  to 622bn/-) Was provided  as  soft loan by  Indian  government  and expected  to be accomplished in last fiscal year. "This project  guarantees  water access  by 100 per cent to 1.1 million  residents of  Tabora, Igunga and Nzega  towns, Uyui District and 110 villages  within 12 kilometers  from the main pipeline," Prof  Mbarawa  said. He said the project was implemented in three segments in which the first one involved laying of the water pipeline with 93.3 kilometers from Solwa Village in Shinyanga to Nzega Towns. "Another pipeline with 103.8 kilometers connected Nzega Town with Tabora Municipality through Uyui District and laying of an 80 kilometers pipeline connected Nzega   with Igunga" he said. This project will start being implemented in Mwanza, Kagera,  Geita, Mara and    Simiyu involving   301 villages in the regions. He further said that plans were underway to improve water services in Dodoma Capital   through Lake Victoria Water Project. Talk of Same– Mwanga–Korogwe water project funded by the government in collaboration with Arab Bank for Development in Africa (BADEA), OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID), Saudi Fund and Kuwait Fund at the cost of 300m US dollar. The project is expected to be completed in September 2020, where the Ministry of water said the project is would address water woes in some 38 villages in Same and Mwanga districts as well as others in Korogwe District Council. Upon completion, the project will produce 103.7 million litres per day against the current demand of 78.4 million litres per day. At least 438,931 people in the three districts, 246,793 in Same, 177,085 in Mwanga and 15,053 in Korogwe. However, the water improvement project in general in 28 cities would be secured in a 500/-million US Dollar loan from the Government of India through the Exim bank in India in mainland Tanzania and one city on the isle of Zanzibar. Contractors are expected to commence implementation by the end of this month; and in its competition, it will serve about 4 million citizens with water by 2040.