THE government has announced that only 30,000 fans will be allowed to access into the National Stadium to witness live the traditional derby match between Simba and Young Africans tomorrow. It will be the third meeting for the two giant teams in the country this season but this time around, they are battling up in the semi-finals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) while their previous two matches were in the top flight league. The winners of the match will qualify to the final to play either Namungo FC or Sahare All Stars who play today in another last four clash at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. But, speaking on Friday, the Director of Sports in the Ministry for Information, Culture, Arts and Spots Yusuph Singo said the decision to let half of the supporters attend the game was reached as a means to curb further spread of Covid-19. “The Covid-19 is not completely eradicated in the country that is why we still need to take precautions hence 30,000 is a good number during this period. “Those who will not have tickets should just remain at their homes and watch the game via Television since we will not allow people to congregate outside the venue and we will have enough security personnel to facilitate that,” Singo said. Asked how they will ensure that the proposed number of supporters is properly checked to avoid exceeding, Singo said they have increased a bit entry charges and that tickets will start to be sold today. According to him, fans wishing to watch the match from VIP A, B and C will pay 30,000/-, 25,000/- and 20,000/- respectively while those who will occupy ordinary seats will pay 10,000/-. Adding, he said the contract which government had signed with Selcom to sell tickets is over such that the sale of tickets will be done by Kinondoni Municipal Council. “We hope that the Covid-19 pandemic will end soon and after that then normal attendance will be allowed,” he said. On his part, Simba SC Information Officer Haji Manara said pressure is with Yanga since if they lose, they will not play in the CAF Confederation Cup next season. “They will play to win the match and we will play to revenge for the loss we have suffered from them this season and here is where the toughness of the game is,” he said. He added that they have already talked with their players to fight hard for the victory insisting that real celebrations comes when a team triumphs in derby games. Also, Yanga Mobilisation Officer Antonio Nugaz said they are aware that this is the only chance for them to play in the international contest next season hence players are mentally fit for the match.