THE ruling party, CCM, concluded its opinion polls in the first round of parliamentary primaries with several cabinet ministers and renowned cadres sharing mixed fortunes. Among the high-profile losers in the primaries include the Minister for Information, Tourism and Heritage, Mr Mahmoud Thabit Kombo, who seeks reelection for Kiembesamaki constituency. The former Health Minister lost to Suleiman Haroub Bape after fetching 30 votes against his opponent’s 50. The Minister for Agriculture, Mr Mmanga Mjengo Mjawir (Mkoani-Pemba) also suffered defeat against the Zanzibar Maritime Authority (ZMA) Director, Abdallah Hussein Kombo, with the former managing 53 votes against the latter’s 57. Other cadres who lost include Mr Ramadhan Muombwa- who was the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation who is seeking to be nominated for the Makunduchi constituency in South Unguja. Others in the losers’ list include the Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs, Mr Khamis Juma Mwalim (Pangawe) and former Finance Minister in the Union government, Ms Saada Mkuya (Kikwajuni). Also making the list are - former State Minister, Dr Mwinyi Haji Makame Mwadini (Dimani), prominent businessman, Mohamed Raza Dharamsi (Uzini) and former National Chairman for CCM youth wing (UVCCM) Mr Sadifa Juma Khamis. The bigwigs who celebrated after the opinion polls include veteran politician and once Home Affairs Minister in the Union government, Dr Mohamed Seif Khatib (Uzini); the Minister for Water in the Union government, Prof Makame Mbarawa Mnya (Mkoani-MP); and former Isles Finance Minister Dr Khalid Salum Mohamed (Donge). Prof Makame Mbarawa, Dr Khalid Salum and Mmanga Mjengo attempted to view for Zanzibar Presidency, but lost to Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi. Deputy Minister for Health, Ms Harusi Said Suleiman (Wete); Deputy Minister for Land, Mr Makungu Juma Makungu (Kijini), EALA Legislator, Mr Abbasi Hassan Mwinyi (Fuoni); and the Minister for Good Governance Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman (Makunduchi) are among those who triumphed in the primary elections. Deputy Minister for Home Affairs Mr Hamad Yussuf Masauni, State Minister Mr Issa Ussi Haji- Gavu (Chwaka) and Minister for Regional Administration Mr Haji Omar Kheri also excelled during the opinion polls. "The screening has been completed but we still have to go through other procedures before the final approval by the party central committee,” said the CCM Deputy Secretary General-Zanzibar Dr Abdalla Juma Mabodi.