“Date My Family is a dating show. It therefore seeks to find people with similar interests and match them according to their individual requirements through a series of three dates with the singleton’s family in attempt to get to know the singleton without meeting them,” MultiChoice Tanzania Head of Marketing, Ronald Shelukindo tipped on a press conference earlier today. According to Shelukindo, this new hot show will premiere tomorrow (July 02, 2020) on the Maisha Magic Bongo channel and it is set to give DStv Bomba viewers a front row seat in witnessing singletons find love. “After the three dates, the bachelor or bachelorette will choose their favourite family and go on a date with the singleton that was represented,” he added telling on how prepared the local version of the successful reality television series. How was the production done? According to Shelukindo, the channel collaborated with a local production company in Tanzania to produce the first season of the hit reality show. The producers are no stranger to the channel having worked on top productions such as Harusi Yetu as well as Mwantumu. Shelukindo equally expressed his excitement with working with highly talented crew once again and delivering yet another riveting show that will keep viewers glued to their screens every Thursday evening at 7pm: “The show is a new concept for the channel and is extremely entertaining, youthful and suitable for the whole family” he cited. “Our mandate to our customers is to be Africa’s most-loved storyteller and MultiChoice has remained true to its commitment in delivering nothing but the best in local story telling that audience can relate to” said Shelukindo  further mentioning that MultiChoice is committed to cultivating and supporting the growth of the economy through partnerships with local businesses. About Date My Family Date My Family (DMF) is a dating show with a twist, where bachelors and bachelorettes share a meal with three different families while their potential partner watches how everything unfolds from a monitor in a separate room. Family speaks volumes about the character of a person. Date My Family explores this fundamental truth by allowing individuals to select a prospective date based on the behavior of the family during a meal. All in all, it is the family that makes or breaks the chances of a date. About Maisha Magic Bongo Maisha Magic Bongo is a local general entertainment channel that offers a mix of locally produced content for the Tanzanian market. The content mix consists of a variation of genres ranging from Drama, Telenovela’s, Comedy, Music, Documentaries as well as Reality Shows. The channel is available on DSTV Bomba, Channel 160.