THE Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, has issued a threemonth ultimatum to parents and guardians in Nkasi District in Rukwa Region to enrol their children at a newly established Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) college. The minister said she was compelled to issue the directive after being briefed that the newly established VETA College at Paramawe village in Nkasi District has the capacity to accommodate 85 students but only 33 had been enrolled. Prof Ndalichako’s move followed a visit to the newly established Nkasi District VETA College at Paramawe village during her one day working tour there. “The Fifth Phase Administration is keen to see that technical colleges are built in all regions across the country by 2025,” she said, adding: “Likewise the authority has continued to translate the curriculum from the current English language to Kiswahili," added Prof Nkasi District VETA College is located at the road junction along Namanyere Town and Sumbawanga (Rukwa- Mpanda (Katavi) highway in Paramawe village. The China Hunan Construction Engineering Group (CHCEG) which was contracted to rehabilitate a section of Kanazi- Kizi- Kibaoni road covering 76.6 km at tarmac level handed the newly established technical college after its completion. " It is heartbreaking to witness poor enrolment here, as only 33 students have enrolled while the college has the capacity to accommodate 85. “I have issued a three month ultimatum to the people to enrol their children; else, I will open doors for children from other regions across the country to cross over and enrol at this college,” the minister remarked. On his part, the VETA Board Chairman, Mr Peter Maduki, emphasized that the authority was determined to impart high level skills to students, so that they can be self-reliant after completing their studies. Latest statistics show that over the past three years, VETA has increased the number of colleges by over 50 per cent. The move has seen the enrolment increasing from 169,118 in 2017 to 302,369 last year. VETA was established by an Act of Parliament No 1 of 1994 charged with broad tasks of coordinating, regulating, training, promoting and providing training in Tanzania.