THE Secretary General of the East African Community (EAC), Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko has sent a condolence message to President John Magufuli, following the sudden death of former President Benjamin Mkapa. Ambassador Mfumukeko said it was with shock and regret that the EAC received the sad news of the demise of retired President Mkapa, who played a significant role in the revival of EAC. Tanzania’s third-phase President, Mkapa, passed on on Thursday, while undergoing treatment in a Dar es Salaam hospital. President Mkapa was a signatory to the Treaty for the Establishment of the EAC on November 30th, 1999 alongside the late President Daniel Arap Moi of Kenya and President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda. The departed Statesman also signed the EAC Customs Union Protocol in Arusha alongside President Moi and President Museveni on March 2nd, 2004. The Customs Union Protocol that took effect on January 1st, 2005 and became fully fledged on January 1st, 2010 resulted in significant increases in the volumes of intra-regional trade in East Africa. “President Mkapa was a dedicated Pan-Africanist, who was committed to regional integration and South-South cooperation, in addition to mediating in armed conflicts and political disputes in various African countries, where he championed African solutions to African problems,” noted Mr Mfumukeko in his letter. The late president Mkapa was part of the African Union Panel of Eminent African Persons, who mediated in the 2008 post-election dispute in Kenya that resulted in the formation of a Grand Coalition Government that brought peace and stability to the country. Based on his strong diplomatic credentials and as an elder statesman, the EAC Summit of Heads of State appointed him to facilitate the Inter-Burundi Dialogue that brought together the government and various shades of opinions opposition groups in the Republic of Burundi between 2016 and 2018, to deliberate on a way out of the political crisis. The Community, said the EAC secretary general, has therefore lost a mentor, adviser and intellectual, who has provided guidance and advice whenever called upon to do so.