YOUNG Africans remain adamant that they will finish second on the top flight league table this season as they host Mwadui FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. A previous 3-1 win over Singida United at the same venue enabled Yanga to sit second on the table, two points ahead of Azam FC who lost 1-0 to Mtibwa Sugar and they will face Lipuli FC tomorrow at Azam Complex. To Yanga, a win in their today’s match will see them hitting 70 points, five points above their main contenders Azam as far as the second slot is concerned as they lately have 65 points prior to their tomorrow’s match. On the other hand, Mwadui who are among the four teams occupying the danger zone, are hoping to garner maximum three points to move up from the danger territory. They are placed 17th with 40 points hence another opportunity for them to grab an important away win. Despite the fact that the second place has no importance at all in terms of playing international games, there has been tense fight among the top four teams like Yanga, Azam and Namungo whereby each has the opportunity to end as runners up this season. However, speaking yesterday, Yanga manager Abeid Mziba said the squad is ready to face Mwadui and maintain their stand to finish on second place next season. “Since we have missed the title, our target remains to end the season on the second place which will be a respect for a big club of Yanga caliber. “We know that we are facing much resistance from Azam who are also interested to occupy the same spot that is why we need to win tomorrow (today) to have an upper hand than them,” he said. He further disclosed that morale in the team is much high saying football has got high and low moments as such, they are aiming to maximise all nine points in their three remaining games. Asked whether the Ghanaian Bernard Morrison is attending the training sessions, Mziba replied that the issue of Morrison is above his knowledge hence he cannot comment much about it. “I have nothing much to say about Morrison. You can ask the coach to comment on him but what I know is that he is a Yanga player,” he said. Ever since Morrison moved straight to the dressing room in protest after being substituted during the traditional derby match against Simba SC on Sunday, no official statement from the club has been made concerning the behaviour he showed. He even missed the recent 3-1 victory against relegated Singida United and it remains a puzzle as to whether he will be among the players forming Yanga squad next season.