IT was a gold rush for CCM cadres who showed up in big numbers yesterday for parliamentary and councillorship primaries ahead of the October elections. The parliamentary primaries in the ruling party promises nothing but a thriller in most constituencies after witnessing a record number of aspiring candidates on the first day. Only four days have been allocated for the exercise and interested CCM cadres, renowned and newcomers, wasted no time. They were quick out of the blocks and flocked party offices across the country to pick the nomination forms, the process that is set to be concluded on Friday. This massive turn out is attributed to a friendly atmosphere set by the ruling party, under the Chairmanship of President John Magufuli, which has created a level playing field for anyone to contest for party primaries. Hot contests are anticipated in most urban-based constituencies, which are already earmarked as hotspots due to the big number of aspirants, their stature in politics, popularity and an apparent ability to mobilise, among other factors. Among those who showed up include the outgoing nominated MPs, who were appointed ministers in President John Magufuli’s reform-oriented government. Minister for Finance and Planning Dr Phillip Mpango collected the forms for the Buhigwe constituency, while the Minister for Education Science and Technology Prof Joyce Ndalichako picked the forms for Kasulu Urban constituency. Also, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi was among 19 CCM cadres turned up at CCM offices in Kilosa to pick up forms for Kilosa constituency, in Morogoro region. Deputy Speaker of Parliament Dr Tulia Ackson, meanwhile, picked the nomination form to contest for Mbeya Urban constituency. Other cabinet ministers who showed up are the Minister for Industry and Trade Innocent Bashungwa (Karagwe) in Kagera region, Minister of State, Prime Minister’s Office (Investments) Angela Kairuki (Same West) in Kilimanjaro and the Minister for Agriculture Mr Japhet Hasunga has collected the forms for Vwawa constituency in Songwe Region. In the Coast Region, the Minister of State, President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government Mr Selemani Jafo collected the form for the Kisarawe constituency. Whereas in Mwanza Region, Deputy Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development Dr Angelina Mabula, collected the forms for Ilemela constituency, the outgoing MP for Magu constituency in Mwanza region, Mr Boniventura Kiswaga collected and returned filled forms yesterday. Former Tabora Regional Commissioner Aggrey Mwanri picked up forms for Siha constituency, while Dr Charles Kimei, who was the Managing Director of CRDB Bank, picked up CCM’s nomination forms for Vunjo constituency. In Kinondoni constituency, two CCM cadres including former Director General of Gaming Board of Tanzania Abbas Tarimba and the Director of African Stars Band (Twanga Pepeta) Asha Baraka have collected the nomination forms. The Bishop of the Glory of Christ Tanzania Church (GCTC) Josephat Gwajima and former Managing Director of Mwananchi Communications Limited (MCL) Mr Francis Nanai collected the form for Kawe constituency. Former Journalist with Majira Newspaper Mr Shija Richard picked the form for Mbagala constituency, while a TSN staff Mr Marijani Murshid picked the form for Ubungo constituency, both are in Dar es Salaam. The University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) lecturer Dr James Jesse took the forms for Segerea constituency, while a journalist Albert Kawogo took the nomination forms for Bagamoyo constituency. The former Arusha Regional Commissioner Mr Mrisho Gambo (Arusha Urban) together with the former Arusha City mayor Calist Lazaro, Philemon Molel and Noel Olevaroya. Mr Fred Lowassa, son to former Prime Minister Edward Lowassa, picked the nomination form for Monduli constituency, while Dr Steven Kiruswa, Sabore ole Moimet, Justine Logotu, Martha Ntoipo picked the forms for the Longido constituency. The Executive Secretary of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Mr Godfrey Simbeye picked the forms for Mbozi constituency with the outgoing MP for Momba constituency on Chadema ticket, who defected to the ruling CCM, Mr David Silinde, picked the form for Tunduma constituency. A veteran politician Prof Juma Kapuya picked the forms for Kaliua constituency, Tabora Region while a journalist with Clouds Media Group Mr Harris Kapiga and Miraji Mtaturu collected the forms for Iramba East and Singida East in Singida region respectively. In the Dodoma region, Vanessa Marika and Victor Mkama and Adam Msendo also turned up to pick up forms for Dodoma Urban constituency, while Dr Michael Sendekwa, Happiness Mgogo picked the forms for Mtera constituency. Mr Stephen Masele, Hassani Fatiu, Grace Lyoni, Bandopra Milambo picked the forms for Shinyanga Urban, while Ahmed Salum picked for Solwa constituency in Shinyanga region. Dr Tumaini Msowoya, who once worked with Mwananchi Newspaper, has collected a nomination form for Special Seats MP on CCM’s women wing for Iringa region, while Dr Philip Filikunjombe who is the lawyer at Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) picked the forms for Ludewa constituency in Njombe region. Mr Dotto Mkenye picked the forms for Busanda constituency, Geita Region as the outgoing Musoma Urban MP Vedastus Mathayo also collected the forms. A Bongo movie artist, Mr Steven Mengele alias ‘Steve Nyerere’ also picked up a CCM’s nomination forms for Iringa Urban constituency. He was accompanied by Movie stars Aunt Ezekiel and Jacqueline Wolper. Meanwhile, members of the opposition parties also emerged in big numbers to pick election forms from their respective parties’ offices across the country. Some of the members picked forms yesterday as others were endorsed for contesting for the parliamentary posts in the areas of their choices. Abdul Nondo returned form to the ACT-Wazalendo offices in Kigoma. Mr Nondo is seeking the party’s approval to contest for the post in Kigoma Urban constituency. Ms Webiro Wassira alias ‘Wakazi’ also picked nomination forms to seek approval from her ACT-Wazalendo party to contest Ukonga constituency. Moreover, Monalisa Joseph Ndala has picked nomination forms from her party ‘ACT-Wazalendo’ seeking an approval to contest for the Ubungo constituency. In Mara region, Mr John Heche, was endorsed by his party ‘Chadema’ after submitting his nomination forms seeking to contest for Tarime rural constituency. Mr Heche is seeking re-election after serving the constituency for the past five years. Ms Jesca Kishoa was also endorsed yesterday by her party ‘Chadema’ to contest for the Iramba West constituency seat. Until Monday evening, more than 50 Chadema members in Kilimanjaro and Arusha had emerged to pick nomination forms to seek the party’s approval to contest for Member of Parliament posts and councillors positions.