SIMBA SC passionate fans have been urged to come and take photos with the top flight league trophy as they entertain Alliance FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. It will be the last home match this season for the champions as they expect to travel to Tanga to face Coastal Union in their next match before winding up the season against Moshi based Polisi Tanzania. Thereafter, Simba will fly to Sumbawanga to take on Namungo FC in the finals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), set on August 2nd at Nelson Mandela Stadium. However, breaking the good news here was Simba’s Information Officer, Haji Manara who said this is the last chance for residents of Dar es Salaam and nearby areas to take photographs with the recently won silverware. “People should come in their big numbers tomorrow (today) and have the chance of posing for photographs with the trophy which will remain our property forever,” he said. He then narrated that what need to be done is for the fans to arrive early at the stadium so that the exercise should be completed before their last game in the city against Alliance. Manara further said today’s match will be special to give Simba fans entertaining football and that they will play as indeed champions hence no Reds supporter should plan to miss it. “If you will miss this match and you live in Dar es Salaam, it will mean that you are not a real Simba fan and I have been told by the club’s management to inform you about this once in a while chance of taking pictures with the league title,” he said. He added that Simba players will provide various gifts to fans as a gesture to appreciate for their support and prayers which have made them to lift high the third back to back championship and the club’s 21st league title. However, Simba go into the game on a back foot after losing their past encounter 3-2 against resurgent Mbao FC at the same venue on Thursday. It was the good results for the visitors who are fighting hard to avoid relegation as the hosts deployed most of their irregular players on the day. Alliance will be looking to stretch their unbeaten run to six games as they have not lost in their past five matches after posting three draws and two wins to maximise 9 points altogether. Elsewhere today, Azam face a tricky away fixture against Lipuli FC at Samora Stadium in Iringa while JKT Tanzania will be at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma welcoming on fire Mbao FC.