THE Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania (ELCT) has showered praise on President John Pombe Magufuli following the nation’s elevation to lower-middle income  status country. ELCT’s Head Bishop, Dr Fredrick Shoo, attributed the country’s feat to Dr Magufuli’s tireless and selfless efforts in improving the welfare of Tanzanians since he assumed office in 2015. Dr Shoo, who was responding to a question posed to him by this writer, described President Magufuli as a selfless leader, worth  of emulation by all around the world. “We (ELCT) are all happy with the World Bank’s recognition as we can finally stand tall in the region, thanks to President Magufuli’s vision,” the senior and highly respected cleric said. The World Bank’s decision, according to Dr Shoo, goes to show how the President lived up to his promise of transforming the country into a middle income economy, come 2025 and that he proved his doubters wrong, five years on. “When he was elected five years ago, this was among his first promises to Tanzanians, much as there existed some naysayers, the President maintained his stance and here are we today,” explained the ELCT Head. Dr Shoo, who was gracing the handing over of Personal protective equipment (PPEs) and other medications to 24 health facilities under ELCT’s umbrella, urged Tanzanians to shun corruption and embrace good leadership traits exhibited by President Magufuli. The World Bank had mid this week, categorised Tanzania as a lower-middle income country after the country made economic reforms, including making consistent plans and taking hard decisions aimed at improving its economic development. Tanzania entered into the  bracket with a Gross National Income ranging between $1,006 and $3,955 per World’s Bank 2018 classification, making the country the second within the East African Community (EAC) to attain such a feat. Last year, the country recorded an economic growth of seven per cent, making the country one of the fastest growing economies in Africa. Earlier on, the ELCT through the ACT Alliance, donated PPEs and other medications to 24 medical facilities around the country. The equipment which cost around 100m/-, will be distributed equally to the health facilities according to Dr Paul Mbando, a Palliative Care Manager with ELCT. “The PPEs will be distributed to the medical staff while the medicines will be given to patients, especially those under palliative care,” he disclosed. According to Dr Mbando, the handing over of the PPEs and medications was ELCT’s gesture of complementing the government’s efforts of preventing further spread of Covid-19 . “The patients who visited our hospitals weren’t turned away despite the pandemic,” he added.