THE dream of Tanzanian basketball professionals; Amin Mkosa and Olyn Londo to start their careers in Malawi National Basketball League have put into wait due to a coronavirus pandemic situation at Malawi. The two players signed professional career contracts to serve the Malawian basketball giants, Bravehearts last month so that to bolster its squad ahead of the FIBA Africa club championship next year. Forward Mkosa who join the team after successfully serving Power of Uganda, will join the men’s team whereas Londo from DonBosco Lioness of Dar es Salaam will play her first professional career as a player of the ladies team, but the outbreak of coronavirus has stopped them from going there because there. Mkosa told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that his desire to join the team has been dealt a blow as Malawi is yet to open its borders due to the coronavirus scare. “We are yet to travel to join Bravehearts, though at meantime they have cleared us to play in Dar es Salaam Basketball League (RBA League) that resumed this month,” he said. Mkosa added that their team decided to allow them to play in Dar es Salaam League so as to keep them fit. However, he said that he is yet to play any RBA League match as he waits for a clearance from his former Ugandan team. “I have already discuss with Kurasini Heat to join in this transition period, but my delayed at playing RBA league is due to uncompleted international transfer procedure, hopeful everything will be ready by next week,” he added. He however, admitted he would be facing different situation when he play in RBA League compared to its Ugandan League. “I understand that is going to be different from that of Uganda where its professionalism is advanced and competition is very stiff as players are better paid than the Tanzanian league. Most of our players play for different perspectives so it is rare to see the best of them in the league,” he said. He said he was looking forward to help Kurasini Heat before turning his focus to new challenge at Malawi. Coach Bahati Mgunda, the Junior NBA coordinator at the Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete (JMK), Youth Park of Dar es Salaam, was quoted as saying recently those contracts of the both players is a way forward. Bravehearts said are on a serious mission to conquer Africa; hence they need to sign quality international players whom they believe can improve their squad.      