IT was a goal-scoring festival in the Mainland Women Premier League with 19 goals netted in the five venues on Wednesday. Chief players of goal festival were Simba Queens and Alliance Girls, who carved 13 combined goals, while the remaining six goals were scored in the three remaining venues. On contrary to the free-goal scoring, the match between Mlandizi Queens and TSC Queens ended in a barren draw. At Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Simba handed Mlandizi Queens a 7-1 blitz in a onesided game. The victory helped Simba to maintain their lead in the title race over their closest challengers JKT Queens and Alliance Girls who are now placed seven points behind. The heroines of the goals galore for Simba included Oppah Clement who netted a brace in the 13th minute and 20th minute and skipper Mwanahamisi Omary who added the third goal just six minutes before the first half break. Simba came in the second half much strong and were able to secure their fourth goal in the 56th minute through Asha Djafar before Doto Evarist netting the fifth goal in the 75th minute. It was a bright day for Simba when Jack Albert sealed off the goal account by adding a brace in the 82nd and 83rd minute. After the results Mlandizi Queens are still fixed on the sixth place after collecting 26 points in from eight wins, two draws and eight losses. Since Simba lost 2-1 to JKT Queens at Mo Arena Stadium on July 6th this year, they have become merciless to their opponents. The victims of the fury included their traditional rivals, Yanga Princess who received 5-1 blitz, Marsh Queens who suffered a 5-0 loss and Kigoma Sisters who lost 3 -1. At Nyamagana Stadium, Alliance Girls punished TSC Queens 7-0, and the hefty victory placed them at the third place after collecting 40 points. They have tied with JKT Queens on similar number of points, but goal average put JKT Queens a position ahead. The win has placed them third tied with the JKT Queens who are placed second with goal advantage though Alliance have one game in hand which is an advantage to them. Alliance got their goals from Aisha Khamis who netted a hat-trick while Aisha Juma and Janeth Matulanga each scored a brace. After their yesterday loss TSC Queens are placed tenth and pocket 12 points in 17 games they played. In another game at CCM Kirumba, Kigoma Sisterz defeated Marsh Queens of Shinyanga 3-2 in a thrilling encounter. Kigoma scored their goals through Aisha Hamza who netted a brace and Asia Juma while Marsh’s goals were netted by Elieth Kulwa and Kitenge Muinda. After the loss, Marsh Queens remain fixed at second from the bottom.