THE chairman of Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam Michael Luwongo has restructured the club’s golf committee by appointing two officials in a bid to strengthen the team. According the club’s communication officer, Selemani Semunyu, Luwongo has appointed George Kivaria to fill the club’s vice-captain position whereas Fred Laizer has become the vice competition secretary. The Club’s golf Captain remains Japhet Masai, while Enock Magile has remained the competition secretary following his commendable job in making Lugalo the golfers’ favourite destination. The two additions was part of the efforts to strengthen Lugalo committee under the chairmanship of Luwongo. Luwongo said that the club has a big task to take golf to the higher level stage and banks on the new appointees to make it reach the desired goal. “We see it is good to add Kivaria and Laizer in the golf committee since our club is blessed with a good number of members who have a passion and desire to work with committee and make Lugalo a better place to play golf,” said Luwongo. He added that Lugalo has many plans and tasks ahead that need services of the committed members of the committee to achieve. Among tasks is to promote the game and develop the youth aiming to become high level players who can serve the country in future. Meanwhile, Lugalo Ladies Captain Hawa Wanyeche has urged the members to continue working hard and keeping fit ready for a busy schedule ahead. Wanyeche said that global coronavirus pandemic has affected her committee’s fixture for this year but they have plan for a busy schedule from next year. “Golf is one of individual games, each player has obligation to keep fit and be ready for the battle,” she said. Wanyeche stressed that it is difficult to plan anything this year as coronavirus has not only affected golf, but also prospect sponsors. “We would like to have some club ladies event this year, but we have to be wise, it might not be fair to knock sponsors door this time, maybe they will need some time to adjust and hope they will be able to support them,” she said.