VILLAGERS of Lupaso, home village of the late third-phase President, Benjamin Mkapa, have abandoned their daily routine for a couple of days, as they prepare to bury their hero. Amid huge grief, the Lupaso dwellers have joined others in making preparations for a fitting burial of the fallen statesmen, Mzee Mkapa. At the compound of the ex-Head of State’s home, where the burial ceremony would be held on Wednesday, villagers, government officials and other mourners were as busy as bees. While villagers were clearing the place, army officials were preparing the grave--dug at a place where Mkapa had made his wish that he should be laid to rest. He will be buried at his clan graveyard located just in front of his house. According to Mkapa’s clan Chief Mkonona, the late Mzee Mkapa had told the members of his family where they should lay his body after dying.his burial…he told us to lay his body beside his father’s grave after he dies,” Chief Mkonona told the ‘Daily News’ on Sunday at Lupaso village, Masasi District. The village is located about 34 kilometres from Masasi town and 11 kilometres from the highway to Newala District. To be buried next to his father’s tomb, Mzee Mkapa’s grave will become tenth in a row of graves of his blood relatives. Speaking about Mkapa’s life and death, Chief Mkonona said the death of Mzee Mkapa left them with great sorrow. “He was someone, who was helping us very much whenever social economic issues arose. He has left us shrouded in darkness. He was our hero who made our village known not only within the country but also all over the world,” he explained. Being the product of Lupaso village, many youths at the village saw him as their role model and someone who inspired them to prosper, especially academically. “Pupils at the village developed love for education when they looked up at the noble man, who was born at the village and became the third president of this country,” he noted. During his life as Tanzanian leader, the late Mkapa worked tirelessly to help uplift the living standard of the people in his native village. This is why, Lupaso villagers said they would remember him dearly, especially for his contribution in improving water accessibility and education. Today, water shortage remains history for Lupaso villagers after the late Mkapa decided to donate 100m/- from his own pocket to drill wells for supplying water to the village. Chiungutwa Division officer Mr Ali Kuchere said villagers have turned out in big numbers to prepare the ground for burial ceremony. “This is because Mzee Mkapa was touching people’s lives directly without considering their ethnical or religious backgrounds,” he said. A resident of Lupaso village Mohamed Kitambi also said he remembered the late Mkapa for ending the water blues at the village. Sister Magreth Munishi, who was born at Lupaso village but serves under the Salvatorian Sisters described Mzee Mkapa as a wise and intelligent leader. “Retired President