MWADUI technical bench was pleased to earn a point against giants Young Africans, in the Mainland Premier League match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. The match ended in a 1-1 draw as the Shinyanga based lads moved up one spot to 15th on the log on 41 points from 36 outings. Regardless, they are still embroiled in the relegation battle and they need to win their two remaining matches to avoid be engaged in play off. On the other hand, Yanga maintained their second spot on the log with 68 points from 36 outings. It was midfielder Feisal Salum, who put the hosts ahead midway into the first half but the visitors gathered up momentum in the second half to equalise the lone goal via Yahya Mbegu. The results saw Yanga failing to cement their target of finishing second on the league table hence the runners up battle this season with Azam FC continue to intensify. Speaking after the match, Mwadui FC Coach Khalid Adam said the gained one point was much better than if they had lost the match. “We had to play with cautious against Yanga, which is not a simple team as you may think hence sharing one point with them is not that bad”. “We created numerous scoring chances during the game but my team lacked sharp edge upfront to convert them. In most league encounters, we play good football but the problem is to put the ball into the net and we are always working on it,” he said. Also, his goalkeeper Mussa Mbisa, who once served as Yanga B goalie expressed his excitement for bagging one point from the tough match. “Our target was to win the match but things did not go according to plan as such, we need to be satisfied with what we got”. “I always try my level best to perform well during league matches contrary to what many people believe that I only work hard when facing Simba, Yanga and Azam,” he said. He further said they must win all the upcoming two home matches for them to be able to see whether they will remain in the league or not. “After the two matches, we will have a clear picture about our destiny in the league ahead of next season, that is why we consider every match as a final for us,” he said. Up next, Mwadui will host Biashara United on Wednesday at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. After being held draw Yanga face another uphill away task against Mtibwa Sugar on Wednesday. The two teams will meet at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro aiming to produce tangible results and be able to grab vital three points. In other results recorded on Saturday, Singida United defeated Ruvu Shooting 2-0, Namungo 1-1 Tanzania Prisons, Mtibwa Sugar 0-1 KMC, Kagera Sugar 1-2 Polisi Tanzania and Biashara United 1-1 Coastal Union.