HADIJA Mohammed is a mother of six living in Babati rural area in Manyara Region, Tanzania. She is a small scale vegetable farmer and uses biogas energy for cooking and lighting in her home village. She chose to use the clean cooking energy in early 2016 after attending a training programme on use of biogas energy for cooking, lighting and production of manure in her farming. “I chose to use biogas energy after I learnt about benefits,” she says as she smiles. Despite it being a bit expensive in the initial stage of installation, biogas energy derived from the cow dung and other waste materials has given her economic benefits. “I have managed to save time because I spend less time in cooking through the biogas system,” she says and adds that before using the alternative energy she spent a lot of time fetching firewood. “Biogas is cheaper and faster in cooking,” she adds, my husband and the children assist me with cooking contrary to the past when we were using firewood,” she says. Ms Hadiija estimates that she saves at least 90,000/- per month that she used to spend on buying charcoal. She invests the savings in home and improvements of her vegetable farm. “Before, I spent over 90,000/- in buying charcoal and firewood,” she says. Another benefit is generation of organic fertilizers from the biodigester that she later uses in improving her farm production. On the other side, life is not good for Lucy Mwenri, a small scale farmer in Kisarawe District. The mother of four uses firewood and charcoal in her cooking. “I use firewood and sometimes charcoal in cooking, I do not have any other alternative sources of energy,” she says. Despite being aware of the alternative sources of energy such as use of solar cookers and biogas, Ms Mwenri is not thinking of shifting from the use of firewood and charcoal as she thinks it is expensive to acquire. “I do not have money to purchase solar cookers neither a capital to install the biogas systems,” she says. She instead uses firewood and charcoal. “I use 50, 000-/ to 80,000/- per month in buying charcoal and even firewood for cooking,” she says. She spends two to three hours in search of firewood every day, the time that could have been used for other activities. She is one among many women in Tanzania with no clean cooking facilities that reduce risks and nuisance of collecting firewood. According to 2017-18 Household Budget Survey, (2017-18 HBS) firewood is the main sources of energy for cooking in Tanzania with 60.9 per cent followed by charcoal with 28.8 per cent. Use of solar as an alternative sources stands at 1.1 per cent of households. The survey shows that use of firewood as the main source of energy for cooking is more common in rural areas accounting for 84.8 per cent of households than in urban Areas with 17.4 per cent. Use of renewable energy as a source of clean cooking facilities for women is important because it helps not only in reducing deforestation due to use of firewood and charcoal but also to help women in engaging in other living generating activities. According to the United Nations, access to clean cooking for women is critical to reach the Sustainable Development Goal on energy (SDG7) and requires measures such as results-based financing and wide participation from both the public and private sectors. The survey conducted by this reporter in Kisarawe District, Coast Region, majority of women cook using firewood and charcoal as they lack access to clean energy facilities. Farida Abbas is one among the women who uses firewood. Despite inhaling the smoke that always causes her endless coughing, she spent hours gathering firewood which robs her time and energy. “The main challenge is the accessibility of clean cooking facilities, I would love to cook using solar stoves but I do not know where to get them,” she says. The area District Community Development Officer Mr Wanchoke Chinchibera says currently the district has no renewable energy projects for women, but says massive efforts were underway to introduce clear ways of cooking for women such as solar ovens. “We used to have clean energy facilities’ projects but most of them failed to take off and due to lack of better management by the initiators,” he says and adds that most of the renewable energy projects are implemented by private sector. “We have started renewable energy production projects and one of it is solar stoves,” he says adding that the project is being initiated by the Kisarawe Municipality with support of the private sector. Tanzania Renewable Energy Association (TAREA) which is responsible for advancing knowledge and skills says the modern energy development is constrained by insufficient awareness on the potential and economic benefits offered by solar technologies and appropriate credits and financing mechanism. The association thus calls for the setting of independent renewable energy policy to help strengthen the development of the modern energy system in the country. Tanzania, through the ministry of Energy in December 2018, adopted the Gender Action Plan (GAP) of the Sustainable Energy for All (SEforALL) initiative, the Ministry’s instrument to increase sustainable energy access. With this, the government recognizes the importance of integrating gender perspectives into policy implementation. And it commits to ensuring equal opportunities for both women and men to access and control sustainable energy services, which is also essential for development. Communication Programme Officer with Tanzania Gender and Sustainable Energy Network TANGSEN) through which SEforALL is being initiated, Thabit Mikidadi says that currently districts are drawing up actionable plans and budget access to create a favorable environment with energy departments at district level and by prioritizing energy in district development plans. Renewable energy solutions such as solar, clean cooking and even biogas have the great potential to aid in the development of women-owned small-scale enterprises. It is thus important for the government and other stakeholders to make modern energy a smart investment for women’s empowerment and Livelihood enhancement. According to Solar Cookers International, hundreds of millions of people around the world who cook over fires fueled by wood or dung, and who walk miles to collect firewood or spend much of their meager incomes on fuel. It is also a big health incidence because of indoor air pollution. World Health Organization shows that cooking over firewood is equivalent to smoking two packs of cigarettes a day. The Organization reports that in 23 countries including Tanzania, 10 per cent of deaths are due to just environmental risk factors such as household air pollution due to solid fuel used for cooking.