OILERS have rectified their past mistakes they committed in their last games to beat Vijana ‘City Bulls’ 75- 68 in regional basketball League match at Harbours courts in Dar e salaam over the weekend. The weekend shootout also witnessed leaders Kurasini Heat suffering their first defeat in the ongoing league. Organised by Basketball Dar es Salaam (BD), the league continues this weekend at the same court in the city. Herve Mbaya who netted 20 points, Evance Davies who carved 16 points and Junior Kabeya who added 11 points helped much Oilers to beat Vijana in a closely fought encounter. Vijana’s Jonas Mushi was his team’s scorer with 19 points. Commenting on the match, Oilers head coach William Mziray, said the match was very tough to the extent they were forced to work extra hard to win it. Mziray said: “We’re delighted to win the game; we have worked hard to get important points.” Lusekelo Mbwele, the team’s chairman added that after suffering a loss to DTB a week ago they had to make several amendments before finding a winning formula against Vijana City Bulls. “It was a painful situation to lose 63-52 to DTB, we have regained our form and now we issue a sound warning to anyone who comes on our way,” he added. In another match ABC were on fine form to inflict Kurasini Heat a first loss. ABC had an easy 81- 63 victory over Kurasini Heat who stayed unbeaten in their three past matches. ABC top scorers were Enerico Agustino who fired home 50 points with 10 three-pointers, while Isidory Mkwama added 9 points to his team. Kurasini Heat’s top scorers were Mwalimu Heri who poured in 19 points while Erick Lugola penned 16 points for Kurasini. Orlyne Londo, who has just signed for Malawian giants Bravehearts for her first professional stint, helped DB Lioness to beat Vijana Queens 43-40 in a closely fought encounter at the same venue. She hit three throws that enabled her team to secure victory in the last 30 seconds of the game to emerge the match’s heroine. It was good work from team-mate Rehema Silombi who was quick to run with the ball to the opponents’ goal as the time was running short before releasing the ball to Londo. Londo was also the team’s top scorer with 22 points, she hit 5 three pointers during the match, while Jasmine Bablia added 9 points to winners. Vijana Queens top scorers were Imelda Hango who netted 19 points and Rose Silidion who notched 7 points.