THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam on Friday rejected a request by the accused facing the 350bn/- economic trial involving Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL), seeking dismissal of the charges they are facing. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi ruled against businessman James Rugemalira and IPTL lawyer Joseph Makandenge after upholding the submissions by the prosecution that the court lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate on the case. “I agree with the prosecution that this court has no jurisdiction to grant prayers sought by the accused. If the accused are aggrieved, they are at liberty to go to the High Court,” the magistrate ruled and adjourned the case until May 21, 2020 for another mention. Through defence counsel John Chuma and Alex Baromi, for Rugemalira and Makandege respectively the two accused facing criminal charges together with IPTL Executive Chairman Harbinder Sethi had lodged 17 grounds of objection, seeking the dismissal of the case for incomplete investigation. However, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon told the court that the lower court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the case, including granting the orders sought because such powers were vested in the High Court (Corruption and Economic Crime Division). In the grounds of objections, Rugemalira stated that the prosecution had offended the provisions of the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act, notably, Section 29(5), which mandatorily directed that it was after completing investigation that he could probably have been criminally charged. According to him, this is what the prosecution has incompetently done since June 19, 2017. He stated that the court could not and had failed to cite specific provisions of the law empowering the court to continue adjourning the case, as the court had been misled to continue doing so in violations of Tanzanian laws and public policy over incomplete investigation. The businessman stated further that Makandege and Sethi had already written to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) requesting for plea bargaining, so there was no reason for continuing adjourning the case over incomplete investigation. He also stated that it was undisputed that on December 5, 2013 he had, on behalf of VIP Engineering and Marketing Limited, given a reminder notice to the Bank of Tanzania not to allow Pan Africa Power Solutions Tanzania Limited to be paid money from the Tegeta Escrow Account on behalf of IPTL. Rugemalira, however, stated that the then BoT Governor, Dr Benno Ndullu, replied in compliance with the court order of September 5, 2013 and pursuant to the agreement involving the government and IPTL for delivery of the funds on October 27, 2013 that the money was transferred to IPTL. Such transfer, he stated, was made on November 28, 2013 and the BoT advised VIP Engineering Company to refer all concerns pertaining to the escrow proceeds to either IPTL or the government. For his part, Makandege said the charges were legally untenable for being arbitrarily premature before the court in contravention of the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act, as well as the National Prosecutions Services Act. He stated that the continued pendency of the case without requisite steps having been taken since June 19, 2017 to date perverted the accused’s right to expeditious trial and undermined guiding principles by which the public prosecution ought to be informed, hence bad in law. Makandege also challenged the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the matter. The accused are charged with conspiracy, leading to an organised crime, forgery, uttering a false document, obtaining money by false pretences, occasioning a loss to a specified authority and money laundering.