WHAT started as a health p r e d i c a - ment with grave bearing on populations-has now become an economic and fiscal tragedy with a high risk of undesirable socio-economic consequences, whose measure to manage comeback could be exorbitant. As nations across the world are in front of unparalleled tests as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Tanzania and her people containing businesses and private sector are no exception in facing the heat. It is now, more than ever, that leadership which can yoke the spirit of Tanzanians and incite collective action is desirable. Tanzania is tested today, as it has been in the past and, in my opinion under measures taken by our leaders so far, has the ability and prospect to marshal its people and businesses to turn the wave against the Covid-19. Nonetheless, time is of the crux and immediate crucial action is overbearing. From socio-economic implications point of view, the impact of the outbreak in the advanced economies on jobs, businesses, investments to mention a few and financial transactions, in my opinion, could have further negative impact on transfer of funds. The perceived and actual effects of remittances on poverty reduction and development in Tanzania: Case study of Leicester- based Tanzanian diaspora study carried out in 2017 shows that remittances to sub-Saharan Africa have steadily been on increase in recent years. Although the study indicates that the full socio-economic benefits of remittances to some countries, such as Tanzania are far from clear, remittances remain important to Tanzanian society. Since remittance help to increase the amount of disposable money for spending on education, health, consumption, business formation, and investments. Unlike other international aid that has increasingly been challenged referring dead aid: Why aid is not working and how there is a better way for Africa, a case well demonstrated by Dambisa Moyo’s book, in my view, remittances go directly to receivers and tend to have instant and direct effects on the livelihoods of the receivers. Remittances amidst Covid- 19 will be affected and with time our central bank will be in a better position in its economic monthly report to unveil to what extent this segment has been affected. As the outbreak deepens, Tanzania’s services, trade and financial sectors would feel pain significant disruptions given Tanzania isn’t an island. Collected, the three sectors contribute significantly to GDP. Contraction in these sectors could result in my judgment significant job losses both in the formal and informal job markets and looking at it at the bigger picture, could be a severe blow to the economy. Economic disruptions brought about by Covid-19, together with internal and other external factors could in my judgment disrupt scenario percentages attained by 2018. With Covid-19 impact, particularly on the tourism sector industry, the Natural Resource and Tourism Minister, Dr Hamisi Kigwangala giving his ministry’s 2020/21 budget, last week in Dodoma, warned that at least 477,000 jobs will be at threat. Amongst this job loss represent 76 percent of direct jobs in the sub-sector. Conferring to Kigwangala assessment, tourism industry in Tanzania employs some 623,000 individuals at the moment, and due to Covid-19 could cut it down to 146,000 only. In an attempt to contextualise current approaches adopted by countries across the world today, the suppression strategy comes with significant economic and social implications and in EAC region life won’t be exception. In a country where the informal sector makes up significant percentage of its GDP with a significant proportion of its population relying on the sector for day-to-day economic survival, individuals will be confronted with a choice between survival today and adherence to social distancing measures put in place for their survival beyond today. Social distancing in my observation assumes a certain level of spatial freedom. In densely populated pockets in Tanzania’s urban centres this theory may not hold. Likewise, it will be difficult to enforce social distancing in congested market places where most of us go for basic goods and food purchase. There is also a risk of further fragmenting the social values and the very safety nets required for healing and recovery. In my opinion therefore, the feasibility and consequences of current responses therefore need in my opinion to be urgently tailored to the Tanzanian context ensuring that those at the bottom of the pyramid are not disproportionately burdened while at the same time, critically needed overpowering and mitigation measures are executed. In an attempt to observe measured undertaken to date, there is need to draw lessons from other contexts and rapidly design home-grown responses. In this regard, the key question is not just how to lessen the spread of the disease, but also how to device these easing and clampdown measures in a manner that is ethnically and economically palatable. Encouragements for unity and not stigmatisation while enhancing trust, social accountability, and encouraging peer to peer backing after the crisis are urgently required. Policy options are dictated by several parameters including an existing weak health care system, a large section of the population with preexisting conditions and governance deficits that have strained public trust. Nonetheless, The question in the minds of national and global leaders in the midst of the evolving pandemic is how affected communities, businesses, will bounce back and in a sustainable manner recover from the crisis. Suggested policy options to address economic distress and swift recover need to bank on measures such as speedily mobilising procurement of adequate essential health equipment. In Tanzania aggregate debt/GDP ratio is fairly low, meaning usage of elastic fiscal strategy could help. Discount in taxes on essential commodities and if appropriate considering advances and salary top ups, could be of help to swift recovery. Other policy option is to consider liaising with the development partners and the private sector to create combined efforts in mobilizing internal and external resources. In this respect, engaging IMF/ WB is critical but prevailing desperation shouldn’t drive our nations into unpleasant financial deals. Setting up of a Tanzania Covid-19 response trust fund could be a major step and if acknowledged, this has to feature in the 2020/21 budget debate and discussion.