THE proposal to declare the present leading soccer club in the Mainland Premier League, the champions, has rightly stirred debate in the country. On Thursday, this week, an organisation that deals with the rights and welfare of soccer players added its voice on the issue. It stressed the need to deal with this issue more cautiously. Most of those who have spoken on the issue have more or less said what I had two weeks ago said; That you cannot decide on the league unless the present first and second runners up cannot win the league even if they won all their remaining league matches. And that is where the word, ‘cautious approach to the issue’ comes in. The issue needs to be approached more technically, and not through whimsical decisions guided by partisanship. But the main problem with this issue is that those who are supposed to come out in the public and bring this debate to a halt, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), are silent. Indeed, no one can stop this endless debate until and unless the TFF says there would be no pronouncement of any champions for any league, including the Mainland Premier League. It is important the TFF made that statement now because football stakeholders need to concentrate on issues that are more relevant to this nation than the pronouncement of the new champion on the league. What are important issues that football stakeholders need to work on? One is of course, how to deal with the present corona virus pandemic. The corona virus pandemic needs to be given priority, at least for now. TFF and clubs managements, especially for clubs in the premier league, need to be told how serious this deadly disease is, and how to protect their friends, relatives and families. Protection against the deadly disease also means adhering to what medical doctors and health experts have told us to do in order to navigate, successfully, against the disease which has no respect to individual peoples’ status. Secondly, our players need to work on training programmes which have already been provided to them by their respective coaches, training programmes they can undertake, individually, in their respective homes. Thirdly, this is the time club managements need to sit down with their lawyers and try to find out how they can better contracts between clubs and players on account of development clubs are presently going through. After the invasion of corona virus, things will never be the same in many areas, including sports. The world is likely to witness many, new changes in future contracts with players that will also take into account the situation they went through during corona virus pandemic. As I had noted in my last sports column, leading European premier league clubs must be already working on their contracts to take account of problems they noted during the corona virus pandemic and which had a bearing on their players. If these people are very much likely to work on numerous issues, which may include contracts on their future players, we also need to look at what can be changed to enhance contracts between clubs and their players. And because all sports activities have been stopped, this is the most opportune time to work on things that can improve our league. Such things include improving our stadia as what Azam FC have done. Unless we improve our stadia and provide facelifts to our club houses now, we will not have such opportunity once the deadly corona virus has been conquered. This is because once the world becomes safe for everyone to go out and do whatever one wants to, we will never have the opportunity to rebuild, physically, our stadia and club houses, competitions all over the world would be set in motion. The present semi-lockdown therefore provides us with the golden opportunity of looking critically at how we can improve not only soccer, but also other sports disciplines. But if we don’t use the opportunity provided to us by this deadly disease (through this global, sports lockdown), we will never have such an opportunity! I’m saying that because while we are wasting our time over who should be pronounced mainland premier league champions, the rest of the world is busy working for better sports future! We really need to change. If we don’t change now, the world would change us and that is not going to be sexy. We need to learn how to prioritise our things in sports. This is the time for planning, going forward. As they say, if we don’t plan, then we are planning to fail. And the question we now need to ask ourselves is; Do we want to succeed once the deadly disease is conquered? If the answer is yes, then we need to plan now for our sports future so that by the time we are through with this problem that has tied down the entire world, we should be able to compete with the best in the world. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@ yahoo.co.