SIMBA SC have insisted that the club is better placed to represent the country in CAF Champions League (CAF CL) next season, whether the Mainland Premier League resumes or is cancelled. The reigning champions sit 17 points clear at the top of the league table with 71 points, while their closest challengers Azam FC occupy second slot with 54 points from 28 games each. If the league resumes, Simba just need to get 15 points from their remaining games to be declared the season’s new champions. They will post 86 points mark that cannot be attained by any other team. Clarifying on this development in Dar es Salaam was the club’s Information Officer, Haji Manara, who said whether the league resumes or is cancelled, they will have what it takes to feature in CAF CL next season. “Some people are saying the league should be cancelled and if that is the case, definitely, Simba will be named as the Mainland’s flag bearers in CAF CL next season because we are currently leading the table. “Again, if the league is not cancelled, we are still better placed to be crowned champions and thereby fly high the national colours in CAF CL next term,” he said, insisting that regardless of the outcome, Simba are well placed to play in the biggest club competition on the continent. Moreover, Manara pointed out that in case of league cancellation, CAF will still need to get the country’s representative in CAF CL and no doubt, the Reds will compete in the contest. He, however, said for the time being, the issue of staying safe during this period of covid-19 is very important, saying the beauty of football cannot be seen in the midst of the pandemic. In a past interview, Simba’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Senzo Mazingiza was quoted as saying he would love to see the league finishing on the pitch other than to be told in a boardroom about the winning side. He also pointed out that people should not rush going back to football as if nothing has happened but rather, when the current covid-19 pandemic issue has eased, then gradually, people should start embracing the game. A huge debate has since erupted in various social media platforms regarding Simba being awarded the trophy, while the league is not yet over with some people calling it unfair as they insist that mathematically, all the top five teams on the table have equal chances to claim the title. Last season, Simba were eliminated in the preliminary round of the CAF CL on an away goal rule. They battled to a barren draw away to UD Songo of Mozambique in the first leg before being held to a 1-1 draw at home. In the season before, they managed to reach in the last eight of the top tier continental clubs tournament. It was a great achievement from them under then Head Coach Patrick Aussems, who was later fired by the club to pave way for incumbent fellow Belgian trainer Sven Vandenbroeck.