PEOPLE in need of pacemakerrelated heart intervention in Central Zone and neighbouring regions will soon start getting the assistance from Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) in Dodoma City. Head of Cardiology Unit at BMH, Dr Wilfredius Rutahoile, said that plans are in advanced stage starting cardiac pacemaker implant at the institution, adding that the public hospital was finalising procurement process to acquire the machines. “We are waiting for pacemaker equipment to arrive at the hospital in order to start the cardiac pacemaker implant. People will now no need to travel all the way to Dar es Salaam to seek the same medical service,” said the Cardiologist. Cardiac pacemaker is a medical device that generates electrical impulses delivered by electrodes to cause the heart muscle chambers (the upper, or atria and/or the lower, or ventricles) to contract and therefore pump blood. Dr Rutahoile explained that pacemaker implant is carried out on a person, when his/her heart beats slowly (bradycardia) or does not properly conduct electrical impulses (a blockage in the electrical system, called heart block). He noted that the peacemaker implant is performed on person when there is fainting spells (synocope), heart failure and thickening of the heart walls (hypetrophic cardiomyopathy). On March 3rd this year, the BMH became the first hospital in the country to successfully perform renal transplantation performed by local medical doctors without support from foreign experts. The Hospital’s Executive Director, Dr Alphonce Chandika, said that was the 12th kidney transplantation at the facility by full Tanzania medics. “We are enthralled to write history to become the first hospital in the country, since independence to perform kidney transplant by using our very own native doctors,” said the hospital’s Executive Director, while briefing the media. However, he pointed out that the institution introduced the kidney transplantation service with support from Japan-based Tokushukai Medical Corporation and Tokyo Women’s Medical University doctors in March, 2018. “After performing the 11thkidney transplant in January, the foreign doctors assured us that our doctors are now mature to perform any kidney transplant independently,” he added. Dr Chandika said BMH in collaboration with University of Dodoma (UDOM) are now set to become kidney transplant teaching hub in the country, adding that the institution was willing to support students undertaking medical studies especially in surgeries. He said at least 75 kidney patients are currently undergoing dialysis at the BMH’s Nephrology Directorate, adding that it receives at least two kidney patients seeking dialysis service on weekly basis. On his part, Dr Masumbuko Mwashambwa, one of the surgeons, who took part in the kidney transplants, said that the team took about ten hours to carry out the life-saving operations. Expressing gratitude to President John Magufuli for enabling local doctors to perform domestic kidney transplant, Dr Mwashambwa said the government has mostly boosted their activities and spirit worth praise. “We are also thankful to the Hospital’s Executive Director, Dr Alphonce Chandika and Vice Chancellor of UDOM, Prof Faustine Bee for enabling us to perform kidney transplant,” said the surgeon, who also doubles as lecturer at the University of Dodoma. Head of Nephrology Directorate at BMH, Dr Kessy Shija, said BMH would continue to monitor kidney recipients’health conditions at least two times in a week within the first month after one is discharged. “After the month one is discharged from the hospital, we will monitor his health condition after every two weeks for another month,” he said.