ZANZIBARI workers have praised President Ali Mohamed Shein for playing a pivotal role in building the country and enhancing their welfare. In a statement issued by Zanzibar Trade Union Congress (ZATUC), Secretary General Khamis Mwinyi Mohammed as part of celebrations to mark Workers’ Day, they pointed out that his contribution in building Zanzibar was outstanding. Speaking on a decision to mark Workers’ Day at home, Mr Mohammed said as the Covid-19 pandemic continued to ravage the world, Z ATUC perceived it necessary to issue a press statement. ZATUC commended all workers led by Dr Shein, for playing an important role in the country's growth and development. They also hailed the implementation of the ongoing tripartite agreement (government, employers/industry, and trade union) in an effort to reduce complaints at workplaces and unemployment. Mr Mohamed said he wished May Day, which is celebrated as the day of unity and solidarity of workers and labourers across the world, would be marked under the theme 'As workers we have the responsibility of fighting and winning the battle against Covid-19 and peacefully take part in upcoming general elections." May Day, alternately known as Workers' Day or International Workers' Day, has different origin stories in different countries. However, the common theme in all countries is 'the labour class taking a stand against the exploitation they were subjected to.' ZATUC mentioned some of the successes recorded under Dr Shein as maintaining peace and political stability, job creation. Whereby the government employed 11,000 youth in different public institutions; and improved welfare of public servants and employees in the private sector. The workers also praised Dr Shein for ensuring that public servant regulations and the Zanzibar Universal Pensions Scheme (Z UPS), were legally backed by introducing laws; improvement of infrastructures (roads network, buildings, improved working environment); and improvement of health and education under free of charge policy. In their statement, ZATUC asked members of the public to help fight Covid- 19 by observing health precautions (social distancing, frequent hand washing and wearing masks), as they thanked both Health ministries (Zanzibar, Mainland), nurses and medical doctors for their efforts to combat the pandemic.