KWALA Dry Port has started operations by receiving the first consignment of 29 cargo containers received from the Dar es Salaam Port through railway. The dry port, which is located in Kibaha District, Coast Region is envisaged to decongest the Dar es Salaam port as well as easing city roads from serving trucks carrying cargo from the port. The opening of the Kwala dry port at the weekend came after completion of the construction of most parts of the port, including an area of 5.5 hectares for stuffing containers.  It is part of 60 hectares of land earmarked for receiving 500 containers at once. Speaking during a brief ceremony to receive a train with containers at the Kwala Port, Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Eng Atashasta Nditiye, said the operation  of the new dry port was a major step towards easing congestion at the Dar es Salaam Port, which was causing complaints from customers. “This dry port is going to open up a new page and the new beginning of Dar es Salaam Port operations. The move would also avoid congestion of trucks on the city roads,” he noted. The Deputy Minister  expressed his satisfaction for the good job, including the construction of a concrete floor for  handling the containers, and construction of trenches to avoid floods. He directed the management of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) to ensure that the remaining part of the project is completed by adhering to quality and standards. On his part, chairman of the TPA’s board of directors, Prof Ignas Rubaratuka, said the project was a result of deliberate measure by the Fifth Phase Government to decongest the Dar es Salaam Port. Prof Rubataruka urged traders, within and outside Tanzania to  use the country’s ports because of great improvements made in their performance. Speaking about the Kwala Dry Port project, TPA’s Director General,  Eng Deusdedit Kakoko, explained that the project started in February 2017 at an estimated cost of 47bn/-and would be completed in July, this year. So far, the contractor of the project has received 20.5bn/-, which is equivalent to 45 percent of total payment, and the project has been completed by 70 per cent.       