NOBODY can easily agree that Honey-Badger is a most jealousy wild-animal to an extent of attacking men who pass by its shelter to protect its female partner. It is believed that when it attacks man it goes first to his private parts. This animal becomes most jealousy during breeding period. “That is how anecdotal findings show. More researches are underway. It is a small wild animal but with unique and wonderful behaviors,” said the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), Range Management Assistant, Mr Peter Chacha. He said honey badgers are pretty solitary. They keep to themselves and definitely stay out of the public eye, usually only banding together to mate. “It selects an area with about five kilometers and set boundaries to live with its spouse and their children. It urinates at all boundaries as identification mark.” Honey badgers are notoriously aggressive animals. Males in particular defend mates with incredible ferocity if threatened. When in hunting, the female is always on the front and the male behind to make sure that nobody gets close to its partner, said Mr Chacha. Another reason for jealousy is that naturally, a female Honey-Badger is always in search of new and stronger male partner, almost in every breeding season. It is thought that this make its male partner jealous. Honey badger's most notable trait is its fearlessness. Some literature source say they hold the Guinness Book of World Records title of "World's Most Fearless Creature. They’re invasive and eager to attack even the big five-lions, leopards, elephants rhinoceros and buffalo.  They would pick a fight even with a porcupine. However their reputation for meanness may be slightly exaggerated. In the past it was thought that honey badgers succumbed to no predator other than humans, but it's now known that leopards and lions eat the animals. “Again, Honey-Badger also develops immune in a liquid form, and gives-off a very bad smell when the fight starts. It never gets defeated completely but only goes unconscious for between three to five minutes. It then goes back to fight. At the time of unconsciousness, its enemies normally stop as they are disturbed by the bad smell, and sometimes run away,” he further narrated. Its sharp and long nail, with three to four millimeters, plus (long and sharp) teeth and strongest muscles contribute its victory almost in any fight. The animal also uses same protective gears to fight against the most dangerous snakes like the black mambas. The honey badger, also known as the ratel, can die from poison stings and bites, but usually survives thanks to its thick, tough skin.  The bite that would melt human flesh could do nothing against honey badgers skin. They can even get bitten by King Cobras and Puff Adders multiple times with little effect, though a strike from something like a Puff Adder that manages to actually penetrate their skin will eventually knock the Honey Badger out for a couple hours. It takes 24 months for Honey-Badger to mature and establish own shelter. The first to establish own shelter is a female. Its area of residence is about two kilometers. After falling in affair, then the male spouse expands the area to about five kilometers and becomes Head. The male Honey-Badger is also so harsh when its spouse is about to deliver, usually in April and May, said the Range Management Assistant. “And this animal needs privacy, the reason why the couples are mating in holes. Child deliverance does also take place there in holes. The female conceives twice a year and in most cases delivers twins.” The highest sensing ability supports Honey- Badger during its family protection task, as it (sensing) tells presence of enemy around or in its shelter. The animal named after ‘Honey-Badger’ because it so much loves eating honey and makes it among its favorite foods. As usual, when it approaches the beehives, Honey-Badger usually gives-off its bad smell to disperse the bees and easily get in (to beehives). This type of wild animal which is available in almost all parts of Africa, Iran and South Asia eats almost everything, including fruits and some types of grasses. Its main food is small animals, mostly snake and lizard-related ones for 80 percent and 20 percent is honey, fruits and other stuffs, said the Range management Assistant. Life span of Honey-Badger depends much on coolness of its living area. In wild, it lives for about 10 years. It can reach 25 years when is in protected/detention area. However, it naturally prefers wildlife environment to captive one. Hence, it usually does whatever possible to escape the detention. With the help of its long nails, Honey-Badger digs downwards until it gets out of the detention and goes back to the wild. It sometimes jumps out following its high-level of daring in doing whatever is possible to achieve the targeted goal, said Mr Chacha.    