BY nature, it is a normal thing for majority of people to go through a soul searching process, trying to think of a career one will engage in in the near future. In that process, everything else may change, but there is one thing that will remain.  That thing you hold dear in your heart and wish to do in your life. That was the case for Lilian Munuo.  For her, she dropped everything and remained with art.  She loved and still loves drawing. She started loving drawing since she was in primary school.  She would just imagine and sketch. Sketching pictures in subjects like biology was her favorite.  That went on and on until she realized she was getting some recognition. She likes calling herself an innovator and artist.  And yes, she fits that identity.  Lillian (23), was born a normal child, but when she was four years old she started suffering from a strange disease. She was later diagnosed with a rare condition called muscular dystrophy, which leads to muscular weakness and shortening of muscles.  But, that has not deterred her dreams. “Art is everything for me,” she says. Lilian loves to venture into areas less travelled by others.  She is doing charcoal and pencil art, and recently she moved to nail and string art. This falls into illustrational art, and she loves it because she likes telling stories. “Telling stories through art can change people’s lives.  Such kind of art also enhances my creativity,” she says. It was while in college that she came to realise that she has something to offer to society. Pictures she displayed amazed and inspired her colleagues.  She vividly remembers a picture about breaking bondages, which influenced a friend to go out of his comfort zone.  That friend of hers is doing fine today. The fifth born in a family of six, she did her primary school at Fountain of Hope Christian School, and then Fountain of Hope Christian Secondary School for her O-Level education. She did her A Level education at Ailanga Lutheran Junior Seminary in Arusha Region.  She completed her Diploma in 2019 at the Institute of Accountancy in Njiro, Arusha Region. The artist recently joined her friend, Fredrick Joseph, who is a film maker.  They will work together at a creative hub, Oasis, where they will be nurturing and mentoring young creators. They have the same vision of making Tanzania to become full of great talents. Lilian is of the opinion that it is high time parents understand that art is important, and should embrace it and allow their children to go for it.  She asks: What is Africa bringing to the world stage in terms of art? A youthful and charming Lilian says when looking around, she sees a lot of talents. “Africa has a lot to offer in terms of art, but few show up,” she wonders.  This, she believes, is probably because of parents’ misconception when it comes to art.  With Fredrick, they want to change that narrative. They want to create a strong foundation, bring youth together and give them a chance to talk, share thoughts and express themselves. They focus on filming, creativity, dancing and drawing, among other things. Lilian and Fredrick are venturing into creative industry that can bring a lot of benefits to youths and the country at large. However, proper organization and policies, management and support have to be in place for this to happen. In his 27th January 2020 post in the Africa Report website, Mobolaji Adeoye noted that with complex value chains threading together multiple service providers, creative industry is a job multiplier and generates USD 4.2bn in revenue across the African continent. Nollywood generates USD 600m annually for the Nigerian economy, and employs indirectly more than one million people per year, and in 2016, contributed about 1.1 percent to the country’s GDP. According to available reports, by 2015, the East African bloc was earning up to USD2 billion from the creative art industry annually. According to UNESCO, the creative economy is one of the most rapidly growing sectors of the world economy. It is highly transformative in terms of income generation, job creation and export earnings. Lilian appreciates support from her family.  Her mother once bought for her five boards. The first board she used came as support from her younger sister, and her father once talked to a curio shop for her to display her art works. Nail and string art is something is still new, so few people understand it.  But, people support and encourage her to soldier on. Another challenge is that art materials are expensive.  Finding a reliable market is also a challenge. Lilian appeals for more government, private sector and other partner’s support towards the creative industry because it is a change maker industry. “Art can transform people for the better, and also creates more employment,” she says. According to the 28th January 2014 African Business article titled: African Creative Industries:  The Sleeping Giant, creative and cultural industries sector mostly requires access to capital and business expertise. Lilian and others in Tanzania and Africa need support to benefit the youth and contribute to the continent’s development.         