A CALL has been made for the golf clubs to strengthen security around the premises during this time when sports activities have been suspended due  to coronavirus scare. The call has been a good advice that aims to protect courses against disrespectful people who can abuse or misuse them at this time of hiatus. Tanzanian golfer Ernest Sengeu was quoted as saying in the Medani tv online over the weekend that since such a bad use or misuse of courses’ infrastructure has already happened in the UK, therefore it can also happen in other countries, including Tanzania. "We have already learnt it from other countries, Tanzania is not an exception, therefore it is better to take action now than latter to protect our courses," he said. Sengeu added: “Obviously, we would all like our courses to be in a good a condition and immaculate when sports resume." Since a golf course is surrounded with beautiful greens, trees, water's, bunkers and brushes, it might attract some disrespectful people who can abuse it at some point. As many golf courses all over the World have been closed since March this year due to Covid-19 outbreak, it is reported that some members of the public have shown dishonest towards golf courses in UK. They disrespect the guidance to stay at home during the lockdown has plummeted to a new level as one venue has revealed it found two people in a bunker having sex. Several clubs have reported misuse of their courses since their venues closed– with reports including people using quad bikes, riding horses and picnicking in bunkers. However, according to the Scottish Daily Record, a club has now found two people having sex in a bunker during the lockdown. Glenbervie Golf Club has sent a message to members, asking them to patrol the course more to ‘scare off’ others who might abuse the course. Chairman Ronnie Neil sent the newsletter last weekend, in which he told members of "a couple engaging in sexual relations within a bunker. (Yes, this was actually witnessed)”. Outlining other bad behaviour, Ronnie wrote: “The club has received an increasing number of messages about unwanted behaviour, including some resulting in damage to parts of the course. “Examples include individuals playing the course over multiple evenings, individuals using the practice areas, bicycles being ridden over greens and using bunker lips as jump ramps. "It’s frustrating that members aren’t even allowed to get their daily exercise by playing a round on their own in the fresh air yet you’ve got locals having sex in the bunkers. Where’s the social distancing in that?”