A NONGOVERNMENTAL organisation (NGO), Reaching the Unreachable Tanzanian (RUT), says it has reached nearly 1,000 women and girls in Dodoma in its new initiative targeting to prevent them from female genital mutilation (FGM). A one-year programme, FGM Free Generation Project (FFGP), under the auspicious of Grand Challenges Canada (GCC) focuses on Kondoa and Kongwa districts. FGM comprises all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia or other injuries to female genital organs for non- medical reasons. Such practices defined as the violence against the right of sexual reproductive health to women and girls. RUT Director of Policy Research, Monitoring and Advocacy Richard Senkondo said the reached number included 550 girls and women. He pointed out that they had decided to implement the project in Dodoma due to grim statistics over the high prevalence of the illegal cut in different parts of the region. "The Tanzania Demographic Health Survey (2015-2016) shows that Dodoma is the second region in the country for FGM practices, still many projects to end such violence have been implemented in other regions, but Dodoma Region has always been alienated," he noted. He explained that the project was using constructive and friendly approaches in efforts to curb FGM, including organising public awareness campaigns to help communities know diverse effects of practising the illegal practice. He added that to eliminate the violence from grassroots, the project was also based on identifying criminals, educating them, as well as assisting them to venture into different alternative income generating activities (AIGAs) through the provision of initial capitals. "In many areas, we have established that “Ngariba” are perpetuating the gender-based violence (GBV) to generate income, often paid at least 5,000/-, whereby traditional local beliefs stand tall behind the persistence of the bodily harmful misconduct," he added. According to him in rural areas, FGM is taken as a mechanism to reduce prostitution among women and girls: "Societies in rural areas embracing the negative notion that the practice plays a major role in preventing girls and women to engage in prostitution," he explained.