PLANS are afoot to expand Njombe Airport to allow smooth landing of major aircrafts like Bombardier Q400, Members of Parliament were told. “The work that is expected to be completed shall include expansion of a runaway, an airport road and aircraft parking built at tarmac level, construction of a new passengers’ building and a fire brigade centre,’’ said the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications in a written response to a question fielded by Special Seats MP, Lucia Mlowe (CHADEMA). In her question, the lawmaker said that Njombe Airport was constructed near residential areas, a move that was interrupting the residents’ activities and costs they are subjected to pay, whenever they are found crossing the area. “Are there any plans to relocate the airport so that this area can be used for other activities, because it is affecting the residents?’’ the MP asked. In the response, the ministry said during the activities to expand the Njombe Airport, the government will build a fence that will protect the villagers from entering the airport and also construct a road towards the facility. “Currently, the government is looking for possible funds to repair this airport to the required international standards, but we do not intend to relocate it because we believe that after the expansion, all the chaos will no longer be there,” stated the response. Njombe Airport like other many airports in the country was constructed in 1940s during the colonial era and became operational in 1945, and as per the then international aviation legislations, strictly prohibited any person, vehicles and animals, among others from entering into the premise without prior permission. According to the ministry, basing on the fact that the area residents are still carrying out their activities, including crossing the fence contrary to the law various legal measures were being taken against them. “In getting out of this problem, the government in 2017 carried out a feasibility study and detailed a design through a loan from World Bank, and this also involved 10 other airports countrywide,’’ noted the government in response.