THE prosecution has completed investigations into the trial of a couple, Boniface Mwita (49) and his wife Rosemary Jenera (41), charged with raising discontent for unlawful purpose after allegedly giving false statements on the state of corona virus (Covid-19). Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, told Principal Resident Magistrate Janeth Mtega at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday that they had planned to present the memorandum of facts of the case. However, the trial attorney requested the court to adjourn the proceedings to another date because the presiding Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo was not present. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the trial to June 8, 2020 for preliminary hearing. During preliminary hearing session, the prosecution is expected to produce more memorandum of facts, disclosing how the two accused persons, both residing at Tabata Kimanga, committed the offence they are facing. It is alleged by the prosecution that the couple committed the offence on March 20, 2020 within the City of Dar es Salaam. While on transit to Muhimbili from Tabata area in a public transport, commonly called daladala, a Toyota Coaster, with other passengers, the duo allegedly made statements with intent to raise discontent among inhabitants of the United Republic of Tanzania. The accused persons are alleged to have said, “Ugonjwa wa korona serikali inadanganya hakuna ugonjwa wowote na imefunga mashule kwa kuwa haina hela na ada za kusomeshea watoto bure…” This statement literally meaning that, “On corona disease, the government is lying, because there is no such disease, and it has closed schools because it has no money and fees for free education…” According to the prosecution, such statements were likely to raise discontent and promote feelings of ill-will amongst the inhabitants of the United Republic. In March, 2020, the police in Dar es Salaam arrested the couple for allegedly giving false information about the covid-19, while on a commuter bus, thus undermining the government efforts in the fight against the deadly disease. Addressing a press conference, the Dar es Salaam Special Police Zone Commander, Lazaro Mambosasa said that while in the daladala, the duo started joking that the government was lying by telling people that there was a coronavirus danger. He is further quoted as saying that the two accused persons went on saying that the government has no money and had closed schools and colleges so that it can get aid from international communities. It is reported that such remarks did not go well with fellow passengers, who decided to take the couple to a nearby police station. “The passenger directed the driver to proceed to a nearby police station for further action, and upon arrival, they were arrested and brought to the Central Police Station where they were detained…” the police commander is further quoted by the media. The RPC used the press conference to warn people on such behaviour, saying the coronavirus is killing people all over the world, and thus the government has issued directives to be followed by everyone in the country to contain the disease.