A BRITISH philosopher, logician, mathematician and historian once said: “Fear is the main source of superstition, and one of the main sources of cruelty. To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom.” He had in mind that some people because of unexplained fear die several deaths even before their actual deaths, implying that they live in fear that ought not to be there. This is the same case today in Tanzania like many parts of the world where in the wake of coronavirus, any person who dies of any natural cause or disease you might think of, is being lumped to have died of Covid-19. It should be known that fear is an idea-crippling experience- crushing, success-stalling inhibitor inflicted that we should not maintain, because even before coronavirus pandemic Tanzania just like any part of the world, people were falling sick and dying and that is a natural cause to balance nature, hence, why should eyebrows be raised and associate any sickness and death with the disease? It should be noted that coronavirus with guidelines observed from the government and health professionals can be kept off in the public and even if it strikes, cases of people recovering have been seen that is why no one should panic and associate it with fear to the extent of stigmatising any person who recovers from it. However, it is disheartening to hear that some health staffs subject any patient to coronavirus tests first whenever any patient reports to their health facility even if one does not show any symptom and might have been brought there from a road accident scene. This culture casts doubts on the credibility of such a staff and fuel unnecessary fear in public about coronavirus that is not all that severe like Ebola. Tanzania is a sovereign State with its laws which should not be compromised and held captive by unnecessary fears which may originate from a few people, who jump into unprofessional conclusion without research. We should have a culture of keeping our fears to ourselves as individuals, but share courage with others, because it is only the bold and courageous who would see the Kingdom of God as the Bible also shoes. Equally, we should thank the Fifth Phase government under President John Magufuli for taking bold steps in the region to make sure that Tanzanians go about their daily activities without a lockdown and curfew, which psychologically kill more than the coronavirus itself.