SALUM Abdalla Mzee is an experienced fisherman in the Indian Ocean, mainly around Zanzibar waters. He is currently the chairperson of ‘Mjini District Fishers Association’ whose members go out for fishing almost every day. When asked Mr Mzee how much fish they catch, in terms of tonnes or kilograms annually, he stumbled to provide an answer and at last he said his association had no data. Mzee is among the estimated more than 50,000 local fishers who go out every day to catch fish in the ocean and lake/rivers in Zanzibar and the Tanzania mainland, and sell to the people for consumption in homes, hotels, or other institutions. However, he, like most of the small-scale fishermen, has no data or lack proper recording of fish. Unreliable or lack of data collection and unsustainable fishing methods are problems also found in fishery departments, and public offices dealing with fishing in the country and even in other developing nations. It is behind these shortfalls in data in the fishing industries that Marine scientists’ early this year gathered here to discuss fish stock, and sustainable fisheries management in the Western Indian Ocean (WIO) region [Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, South Africa, Comoros, Madagascar, Seychelles, Mauritius, and Réunion (France)]. Ms Dr Margareth Kyewalyanga, Director, Institute of Marine Sciences (IMS) has said that unsustainable fishing methods, data collection are complicated by mixed species, ‘mixed fisheries with different gears,’ and lack of capacity in some areas. She said at a regional Workshop held here that fisheries contribute significantly to global food security, livelihoods and the economy but these challenges affects the sustainable development of fisheries in the Western Indian Ocean region. The IMS director said developing and implementing effective management plans to rebuild over-fished stocks requires strong political will and appropriate policies, “It also depends on data– accurate and useful data.” Participants at the “Workshop on Stock Assessment and Estimation of SDG Indicator 14.4.1 (Proportion of fish stocks within biologically sustainable levels),” observed that there was a need to train fisheries scientists and managers in stock assessment methods in the WIO region. Stock assessment methods in the region is one of the core objectives of the FIDEA (Fisheries Data East Africa), project implemented under the Meer- Wissen initiative, funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. The main objective of the project is to “Strengthen a science- based decision-making process in support of sustainable fisheries management in the East African region by developing a regional framework for the collection, sharing and analysis of fisheries data.” Accordingly, a two-week training course on SDG 14.4.1 Indicator was jointly organised by the Leibniz Centre for Tropical Marine Research (ZMT), Bremen, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), the Western Indian Ocean Marine Science Association (WIOMSA), the National Institute of Aquatic Resources in Denmark (DTU Aqua) and the Institute of Marine Sciences (IMS), in Zanzibar. The objectives of the workshop held in March this year were to provide both the purpose and theoretical basis of stock assessments and hands-on application of how to choose and apply appropriate tools for assessment for the estimation and reporting of SDG Indicator 14.4.1. A total of 149 stakeholders from three continents applied for the course, with the majority of the applicants coming from the WIO region, further highlighting the great need for such kind of training in the region. Dr Omar Amir the Deputy Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock, and Fisheries, Zanzibar and Ms Julia Hannig the head of Development Cooperation in the German International Cooperation (GiZ), Tanzania, jointly officiated the opening of the workshop attended by 30 participants drawn from 12 countries. Observers from the World- FishCenter and the Minderoo Foundation in Australia also attended the workshop, which was held in two sessions and was comprised of a series of lectures interposed with a hands-on practical use of stock assessment tools. The first session provided an opportunity for policymakers from Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique to discuss the current national fisheries data systems, their strengths and weaknesses and suggestions for improvements, before the participants concentrated upon the concepts and monitoring process of the United Nations SDG Indicator 14.4.1 and the data needs for estimation and reporting. Key highlights included the official launch of the FAO Elearning course on SDG Indicator 14.4.1 (https://elearning.fao. org/course/view.php?id=502) and the Stock Monitoring tools in the Virtual Research Environment: https://i-marine.d4science. org/group/sdg-indicator14.4.1/ sdg, which all participants were able to register to and currently using for self-paced learning. Besides, the participants were also introduced to some classical stock assessment tools and data-limited approaches, including ELEFAN+, LBSPR, CMSY and SPiCT, allowing them to apply these tools to the data from their respective countries. Further, action plans were developed at the country level for indicative planning for follow- up activities to ensure that participants get started and translate their learning into practice to help their countries monitor and report on the status of their fish stocks. Among the activities to be implemented, is a commitment by the participants to share and disseminate the acquired skills with working groups and colleagues at their home institutions. They promised to continue with the SDG 14.4.1 e-Learning course and to involve stakeholders to review and set up the reference list of stocks to be assessed with the introduced tools and to revise and resubmit their report to FAO on their countries status in reporting on the SDG 14.4.1 indicator. The consensus was that a follow-up workshop/training should be conducted to maintain momentum, to review progress and share good practices.