MORE than 300 micro, small and medium enterprises will acquire skills on efficient production through KAIZEN consultations conducted by trainers from Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO), College of Business Education (CBE) and other related organizations. According to the statement from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the programme will also contribute to the preparation of SMEs’ high-growth after the Covid-19 situation calms down. Recently, the industrial sector in Tanzania has been facing big challenges due to the global pandemic of Covid- 19. Most markets are scaled down globally, and companies, especially Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), are struggling with running their businesses continuously. In this situation, the ‘Project on Strengthening Manufacturing Enterprises through Quality and Productivity Improvement (KAIZEN)’, which is the technical cooperation project between the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), organized an online-based distance KAIZEN training last week. The training was successfully conducted with over 25 participants from 17 different venues in Tanzania and Japan. KAIZEN is originally a Japanese word meaning Improvement and, in the business administration, KAIZEN means the management philosophy and know-how for ‘continuous quality and productivity improvement’ of organizations. KAIZEN is also a humanoriented approach fostering teamwork, mindset change, self-reliance, creativity, and ingenuity to come up with ideas for solutions to the problems we face, including those here in Tanzania. That distance training’s subject was the Training of Trainers (TOT) for KAIZEN Service Provision to Industrial Clusters (KAIZEN x Cluster) as a part of the KAIZEN project, and it was organized in collaboration with ministry of industry and trade, the SIDO and JICA. The TOT is the first step of the KAIZEN service provision and based on that the KAIZEN x Cluster pilot activities will be implemented in selected industrial clusters in Dodoma, Morogoro, Mbeya and Kagera Regions this year. JICA will continue supporting Industrialisation in Tanzania through its technical and financial cooperation, utilising online technology as well distance learning as above in order to correspond the current Covid-19 situation, and thereby we can get through these tough times together.