HIGHLY motivated by President Joseph Magufuli’s call for the quick resumption of the Football League, basketball players said the speech has set them a trailblazer of hopes that Dar es Salaam Regional Basketball league (RBA) will come back strongly too after a hiatus. The President of Tanzania Basketball Federation(TBF), Phares Magesa, who lauded the speech this week, said from what JPM said there high hopes for basketball activities to find their way back on courts soon. But to the players and officials of Dar es Salaam Regional Basketball League (RBA), they anticipate to see the best in terms of the marksmanship and believe would herald the league resumption when the suspension is lifted. According to statistics prior to the RBA suspension period in Mid-March, the race for the top scorer’s award was very fierce and so was the league’s title race. When it was suspended ABC looked superior in point carving and their pointer Filbert Mwaipungu was slippery ahead of the rest with 88 total points. Close to him was his team-mate Henrico Augustino who had slammed home 80 points. Third overall in scoring race is Ally Mohamed from JKT who had hauled 53 points ahead of Francis Mlewa from JKT Mgulani who has so far fetched 43 points. National basketball team skipper Baraka Sadick was fifth with 44 points when the league was stopped. Sixth placed is as David Machanya of Chui who has managed to score 42 points ahead of the seventh-placed David Kilimbe with 40 points. Francis Mlewa comes again as the leading player in rebund catches having done so 32 times. He is followed by David Machanya who has managed 21 rebounds. Last week TBF lauded the government’s intention to bring back to life sports activities after been stopped since mid-March due to global Coronavirus outbreak. “I complement the idea, we all know that we are living in the middle of crisis but life should go on, this is important for health well-being and country economy too. “Though I suggest that important measure should be taken to prevent against Covid-19 spreading during the games if it has to resume,” he noted. He said the safety of each one to be involved in the game is more important, so if it had to resume they need to reassure safety measures are strictly observed.