I PROBABLY have never met you and probably won’t until we both go (separately, of course) to where I guess by near-100 per cent certainty that no-one wishes to, even those who claim that they are fed up of being alive. Almost along the same lines, I am sure that, no-one in one’s right senses as opposed to wrong ones, wishes to become a guest in a nasty place called lockup. Whereas a lockup serves the justifiable service of providing temporary and (how nice! ) free shelter to someone who has allegedly collided with the law, the way a stupid goat bangs its head on an innocent tree trunk, it technically circumcises his or her dignity. Once upon an afternoon, in the tiny Republic of Kinyerezi, within the fatter Republic of Dar es Salaam, within the fattest Republic of Tanzania, I decided to exercise my constitutional right of moving around aimlessly under cover of murdering boredom, but without violating the law. While doing so, a process beautifully captured by the Kiswahili expression “kunyoosha miguu” (though my legs aren’t bent to require straightening), two well-built young men grabbed me. They were in the company of a young woman who swore that I was the one who had winked at her along that same street recently. I protested, swearing in the name of you-know-who, that, my innocent eyes had never mischievously focused attention on so-called members of the so-called opposite sex, especially those young enough to be my daughters, due to my ambition of ultimately becoming a resident of heaven. My explanation fell on their so-called deaf ears, the chaps insisting that the issue should be referred to the nearest police station. By the grace of God, and the invisible intervention of my long-time “life retiree ancestors”, an interesting discovery emerged when we got there. An old man roughly my age, almost as fat-less as I (slim is an embarrassing description), and of a somewhat close resemblance to mine, especially the silvery hair and stupid-looking goatie, had been taken there a few minutes earlier. It was over the similar complaint of seducing young women, to which two other complaints had been lodged. The suspect, an apparently humorous man, floated a strange proposal of me bailing him out, under the “wazee tusitupane” (Elderly persons should exercise tight solidarity in times of adversity). I was let off the hook, and my accusers were both embarrassed and remorseful. As I walked away, I was delighted, because being locked up is something that I dreaded almost on the scale that you and I, and the person next to you wherever you are, dread the extreme opposite of heaven. I had never been there, but going by the stories I hear, some of which might be partial or full-scale rumours, lockup is literally (technically ?) a small-scale hell on earth. I was gigantically excited by the near-miss, as opposed to a near-goal. However, whenever the expression lockup crops up, my memory travels back to the would-have-been nasty experience back then. The world never dries up of drama, though. Back then, the likelihood of being even a short-time lockup resident was frightening. So frightening it was, indeed, that, I programmed myself into being so soft that, I imagined that, even if a crazy young person were to call me an old, tired, ugly cow, I wouldn’t become angry, for fear of ending up in a lockup. Smiling broadly, I would thank him profusely and praise him (dishonestly, of course) as the most handsome male creature in Bongoland. Times have of course changed. For, come Covid-19, upon which, according to a naughty rumour monger, someone pasted the nick-name “Kovidi Mwaka Jana”, the deadly disease has produced two social aspects. One of them is lockdown, the opposite version of lockup. The police-related lockup is more straightforward because it involves Mr Mtuhumiwa being really locked up in a room. He awaits further judicial actions, the climax of which may be ending up suspending his name for a good (not bad) number of years, and acquiring a number. But lockdown entails being confined in an indoor location such as a house ( a cave is ruled out, I guess), as one of the measures for curbing the deadly disease. The definitional puzzle, though, is that, being locked down doesn’t necessarily imply that yours is a two-storey house, whereby you are locked in the lower part. You are under lockdown even in the case where this relates to a single room. During a recent chat, Makubazi, a mischievous friend of mine who believes in cracking jokes as a means of easing tension, proposed that facemasks should be renamed face locks. I told him that he was a big idiot because masks don’t lock faces. He punched my innocent face Tyson-style. It is now half face-masked; half- bandaged. “God bless you,” I told him; would you? Whatever the answer, God bless you. wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633