TANZANIA People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam said the course is ready to resume its operations again. The course was closed since mid-March this year due to Coronavirus pandemic and club management decided to utilise the global crisis to upgrade its course. Lugalo Chairman Michael Luwongo told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam that the closure was also meant to adhere to the government’s directives as drastic measures to prevent the spread of deadly Covid -19 pandemic. He said, since the government has issue the statement to open sports activities in the country effective next Monday, the club course will be open for use after receiving further directive from the Tanzania Golf Union (TGU). “We are happy to inform our members and all golfers that the course is in better condition to host them. As I said, the club did not sleep all the time when sports activities were suspended. “We used that time to upgrade the venue and the course is in fantastic condition… all important health measures will be put in place,” he added. Luwongo said sports are part of army’s responsibilities, but they will wait for further directives from TGU before officially reopening the course for players to take usual practice rounds. They are also looking forward to host tournaments that were postponed once everything goes well. The chairman said that they understand that the closure of the course was a difficult period for golfers and caddies, who their life depends on course. He remained optimistic that everything will get back to normal in the course, while everyone continues to take preventive measures to protect each other as the deadly disease is yet to disappear. Luwongo added that sports are very important for health well-being as President John Magufuli said, so it is a good thing that the government has approved the activities to restart. During the shutdown period, only ground keepers were allowed in the club premises for the course upkeep according to Luwongo. Lugalo is among the most active golf club in the country, when it comes to organising golf activities. They also do well on promoting and developing the game through junior development programmes.