KAGERA Sugar hit man Yusuph Mhilu said his target this season is to score 20+ goals and if possible, win the golden boot award for the first time in his playing career. Mhilu, who has so far scored 11 goals in the top flight league, eight goals behind the current top goal scorer Meddie Kagere, is one of the best domestic players in the league and has managed to upgrade his graph ever since he left Young Africans. “I have set the limit to net more than 20 goals this season and I believe I can achieve that bearing in mind that on a good day, you can score even four goals in a single match,” he said. About leaving Yanga, Mhilu said lack of playing time under then Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera was the number one reason he decided to go separate ways. “Before him (Zahera), I used to get playing minutes when the team was under the tutelage of Zambian George Rwandamina but after his departure, I was told that I could not fit in Zahera philosophy that is why leaving was the best option for me,” he said. He added that he is now receiving offers from different clubs seeking his services but insisted that only the team which will come in with the attractive deal will win his signature. Again, Mhilu disclosed that he will continue to work hard to win trust of being called to play for the national team Taifa Stars, where he said it is a dream of every player to feature in the national team. Kagera Sugar Head Coach Mecky Mexime said he is ready to guide the team to finish on top four in the league this season. Concerning the league being played at one centre Dar es Salaam, Mexime said he has no worry with the decision, saying those teams which have had good preparations will love to play in the city. “It is not a hidden fact that if you want to play good football, the only place to achieve that is in Dar es Salaam because they have good pitches hence for the teams which are in good shape, they cannot complain about this development. “Running football is very expensive as such, before establishing a club, people are always aware that it needs more money to manage it as such, due to the current situation of Covid-19 pandemic, there is nothing else we can do because it is an emergency,” he said. Kagera Sugar are 9th on the table with 41 points from 29 matches and seem to be safe from the relegation threat this season.