NATIONAL Cricket team’s Head Coach, Steve Tikolo said he expressed satisfaction on the quality of the players he has and believes that they will do well in forthcoming the tournaments. He noted that his confidence in his players is tremendous as they have been active on the field and have shown a lot of talents in them. “My overall experience, it has been exciting to work with a new bunch of boys and I have been impressed with the amount of talent in them. Before we left for Zimbabwe I had an opportunity to work with them for one and half month.” “The Zimbabwe tour was a very good as it gave a chance to see my players on the game, and also for the players to see how cricket is played at that high levels.” So as his players continue to excel, Tikolo has been closely following their practice at home with the intentions of making sure they have a continuation with where they ended up. “What we are trying to do with our players right now is just to keep giving them exercises that they can do at home individually, and every now and again we post them at the group to see on the progress of our players.” Apart from the results and efforts he sees in his players, he believes it will not take long for them to return to the quality they were despite the fact that his fears abound in physical fitness and not the basics of the game. “Once a player learn the basics it is very difficult for him to forget them…you might lose form, lose fitness, but the basics of the game will always be there if you have learn in them in a proper way.” “All in all it is a difficult time for everyone, but I am sure when once we come back they will quickly catch up from where we left.” Tikolo looks up to play more international friendly games, in order to identify more weakness on his squad and to correct them before they go for ICC Men's T20 World Cup African Qualifiers. Tanzania is placed in group A alongside Mozambique, Botswana, Cameroon, Sierra Leone and St. Helena, while group B teams are Uganda, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Rwanda, Seychelles and eSwatini. Tikolo believes more games are essential for the development of his squad in terms of confidence and developing of news skills from the opponents.