YOUNG Africans striker, David Molinga said his role model in taking free-kicks was the former England skipper David Beckham saying he learnt a lot from him as far as playing dead balls is concerned. Molinga joined Yanga last year under the then Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera, but saw his playing time limited upon the arrival of the incumbent coach Luc Eymael. But speaking in the city yesterday, Molinga named Beckham as one of the best free kick experts insisting that the ex-Manchester United legend used to play his dead balls like penalties. "To say the truth, I learned a lot from him and I have also scored more goals via set pieces. Whenever Beckham stepped up to take the free kick, one could easily count it to a goal," he said. According to statistics, Beckham scored 65 goals via set-pieces throughout his football career and is among the five top free-kick takers in the world. However, in a past interview, Molinga disclosed that if he will get a chance to play all eleven remaining games for his side in the Mainland Premier League, he is ready to score six to eight goals. Molinga, who is the top goal scorer for Yanga until when the league was suspended due to Covid-19 scare, has netted 8 goals to his name. He insisted that he still believes that he can score more goals provided he plays in the remaining matches. "I strongly believe that provided I get the chance to be featured in all eleven games, I will score six to eight goals since I know my abilities in front of the goal and that will enable me to finish the season with more than 15 goals," he said. However, the Congolese striker said no player in the world can maintain the same good consistency throughout the season saying performance is usually unpredictable. "Even great players like Lionel Messi (Barcelona) do not have the same consistency of producing good performance in all the seasons since sometimes, their work rate drops and that is what football is all about. They also miss goals during matches," he said. He then revealed that he was surprised when Zahera was sacked saying he is one of the best coaches on the continent since he spearheaded his landing at the Jangwani Street based club.