MINISTER for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, has directed a contractor to ensure the expansion of Zuzu Substation completed by the end of May this year. He gave the directive at the weekend after inspecting the construction of Zuzu Substation, saying there would be no extension of time and the work should be completed by the end of May. "Zuzu Substation expansion is key to Dodoma City and to neighbouring regions. Therefore, I want it to be completed as agreed. There will be no time extension. We have given you enough time," he said during a tour that brought together Tanesco board members and ministry senior officials. Moreover, the minister directed the Tanescoboard to monitor and supervise the management and the contractor so that the project would be completed on time and power was switched on by the end of May. He said the government would give no extra time to the contractor, KEC International Ltd, and directed it to work day and night and increase the number of the labour force for the project to be completed on time. "Dodoma power demand is increasing. We have to ensure we have sufficient energy for the country and people. Zuzu Substation is expected to generate extra 600MW to the current 48MW," said Dr Kalemani. "Currently, the substation produces 48MW while consumption is 40MW. So, you can see the reserve is not that much to meet the increasing number of economic activities taking into account the government's decision to relocate to Dodoma. We have to get prepared," he insisted. The project is implemented by KEC International Limited since March 2018 and was supposed to be completed by January this year, but during the minister's tour of the project in November last year, the contractor asked for more time and was granted until the end of May. Nevertheless, the contractor assured the minister that they would reschedule their work plan so that they could finish the project on time as directed. Dr Kalemani also instructed the Tanesco management to ensure Zuzu Substation had requisite equipment to respond to any emergency. Speaking during a site visit, Tanesco Board Chairman, Dr Alexander Kyaruzi, said they would make a close follow-up so that Zuzu Substation expansion was completed on time. "We know the importance of the project to the designated capital which has an increasing economic activities and investment projects, thus reliable power is crucial. We will keep a close eye so that the project is completed as planned by the end of May," said DrKyaruzi.