FORMER Young Africans and Simba SC striker, Amis Tambwe refuted claims that he is planning to hang up his boots, saying he has more years to play active football. Tambwe, who was among the well-known goal poachers in the Mainland Premier League, helped Yanga to finish on second slot in the league last season under the tutelage of Mwinyi Zahera. Speaking via a telephone interview recently, Tambwe brushed aside claims of retiring from football, insisting that he takes good care of himself to remain fit for the game. “I am 31 years old meaning that I still have another four years to be active on the battlefield and that is possible because I know how to keep myself in good shape. “I do not drink and do not go to clubs. I have a wife as such, no need for me to go outside searching for women. These are the things which I avoid to remain focus on my football career,” he said. Furthermore, Tambwe gave kudos to Simba for amicably entering into transformation in their running of the club, saying that is what the modern football requires. “I have heard that even Yanga are considering following the same channel, which is a good thing because they will be able to buy any player they will want due to the financial muscle they will have,” said him. In the same token, the Burundian striker recalled the traditional derby match between Yanga and Simba in which he allegedly scored using his hand as one of the matches he will never forget. “Most people think that I scored using my hand but that was not the case. I never handled that ball. “I used to approach such games (Simba vs Yanga) in a unique way to show that I was still better even if the other side (former employer) let me go to join the opposite team,” he said. Meanwhile, Yanga midfielder Feisal Salum said his ambition is to play outside the country. “I really want to play professional football outside the country that is the dream I have had for a longtime and I know that one day, I will accomplish that. “When a player shifts from one league to another, his form usually improves. During the time when I was playing in Zanzibar, only few people knew me but since coming here (Mainland Premier League), I have extended my wings to be seen by many people on the continent,” he said. About his deal of going to play in Egypt which collapsed, Feisal said he was not personally consulted by the Egyptian team, which wanted him but rather they talked with Yanga.