THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Thursday rejected the request by accused persons facing the 350bn/- economic trial involving Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL), seeking dismissal of the charges they are facing. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi ruled against businessman James Rugemalira and lawyer with IPTL Joseph Makandenge, after upholding the submissions by the prosecution that the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything surrounding the trial. “I agree with the prosecution that this court has no jurisdiction to grant the prayers sought by the accused persons. If accused persons are aggrieved, they are at liberty to go to the High Court,” the magistrate ruled and adjourned the trial to May 21, 2020 for another mention. Through defence advocates John Chuma and Alex Baromi, for Rugemalira and Makandege, respectively, the two accused persons facing the trial alongside IPTL Executive Chairman Harbinder Sethi had lodged 17 grounds of objection, seeking dismissal of the case for incomplete investigations. However, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, told the court that the lower court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything in the trial, including granting the orders sought because such powers were vested with the High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division. In the grounds of objections, Rugemalira had stated that the prosecution had offended the provisions of the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act, notably, Section 29 (5), which mandatorily directs that it is after the investigations would have been completed that he could probably have been criminally charged. According to him, this is what the prosecution incompetently did since June 19, 2017. He stated that the court cannot and has failed to cite the specific provision of the law empowering the court to continue adjourning the case, as the court has  been misled to continue doing so, in catastrophic violation of the Tanzanian laws and public policy over incomplete investigations.  The businessman stated further that Makandege and  Sethi had already written to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), proposing plea bargaining negations, thus, there were no reasons for continuing to adjourn the trial over investigations being incomplete.  