EXPERIENCE is the best teacher or at least they argue. Its importance though gets recognition when some strange situations occurs. That the world is at its scariest moment now is no news anymore. If you find that no one pays you attention for telling that no country on earth currently, has discovered vaccine nor cure of Covid–19 pandemic, don’t panic, those stories are beyond sell–by date, have got little demand in the market. As we wobble through this crisis, it is critical that we take some lessons from Great Depression crisis that occurred in 1920s all over the world, in this case with a focus to African countries. The best continent’s account on this subject was provided by Walter Rodney in his best work, “How Europe Underdeveloped Africa” of 1972. He displayed how multinational companies operating in Africa, took advantage of weak and disorganised African peasants by buying crops at a cheapest price and selling to them European goods at exorbitant price. In page 158 of the book he recounted rather emphatically, “Trading companies also had their own means of transport inside Africa. But, usually they transferred the burdens of transport costs on to the peasants via Lebanese or Indian middlemen”. The book continues to unearth the hidden mishaps that, “Those capitalist companies held the African farmer in a double squeeze, by controlling the price paid for the crop and by controlling the price of imported goods…the depression years followed the same pattern. In Sukumaland (Tanganyika) the price of cotton dropped in 1930 from 50 cents to 10 cents per pound”. Basically, as the farmer had to battle with ruthless supply chain, he had to adhere to new rules governing the money economy like, payment of taxes to the newly self – imposed foreign authorities. Today, much has not changed, and this is the major reason this article has to relate our current situation with the Depression epoch. While we will try to shed light on some developing events especially related those to what Tanzanian farmers stands to be affected, no solutions will be put in place so that none of us will be limited in proposing the best approaches to help them out of this systemic unfairness. To be precious, there are no notable declines on the price of food price in the country as of now. But if anyone will take a little attention to what the United Nations predicted on the danger of shortage of food in the world, that will see 265 million people getting to acute hunger bracket, will contend with me that things will not be the same. Tanzania’s weather is very stable and weather forecasts paint this year as the great one due to constant rainfall required to grow crops. Also, the locusts that decimated harvests in Eastern Africa region previous year did not touch Tanzanian soil, so it is correct to say that we don’t have last year’s debts that will need to be offset this time as our neighbors are facing. Sub- Saharan Africa is the world’ largest rice–importing region in the world, with 40 per cent of its rice consumption coming from imports. The league of global rice exporters is led by India, which thanks to lockdown and uncertain production in the future, has already imposed an export ban of the crop. Similar reason has led to limited export from Vietnam, Cambodia and Pakistan. It is a no– brainer that our region, which is reeling from “Locust–19”, will face a major shortage of food in the coming months or year. All our neighbors will run to Tanzania seeking more commodities, an action that will lead to food shortage in the country. Probably, we needed a proverbial Joseph who could foretell this happening and advice our “Pharaoh” so he could lead efforts in tripling our grain production from seven years ago. Nonetheless, no one could foresee this, not even “Pharaoh” himself, and therefore our production capacity will predominantly be enough for us only. The worst–case scenario is comes from the fear that our government may take the Indian or Vietnam way of imposing exportation of grains, a preventive measure that will only ensure that there is a calm before the ravaging storm. Biggest losers in this showdown will again be farmers as their commodities prices will plunge and no one in the supply chain seems to have that angelic gut to absorb the losses. The least these companies will do will be the same trading companies in Great Depression times did–to transfer the burden to the small holder farmer as they raise price of finished goods imports. As we said earlier, there will be no readymade answers today. We can still debate and research further on the ways to protect our very own routine casualties–the small holder farmers.