THE government intends to provide electricity to all Namtumbo District villages in Ruvuma Region by the end of the year 2021, the National assembly was told here yesterday. That was Minister of Energy Dr Medard Kalemani written response to a question by Namtumbo Member of Parliament Edwin Ngonyani (CCM), who wanted to know when the government will reach Namtumbo with electricity. In response, the minister said through the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) Phase III, which started in June 2017 and expected to end in June 2021, electricity will reach all villages in Namtumbo. According to the ministry, through the first round of the REA phase III Grid Extension, 23 villages will be reached with electricity before the end of 2020. The MP asked “ Namtumbo did not receive electricity in the first and second phases of REA, what are the government’s plan to ensure the district is reached with the project in the third phase?”. The MP also wanted to know when the Makambako-Songea grid project will be lit and reach the remaining villages in Namtumbo. In response the ministry named the villages to be reached as Utwango, Litola, Mchomoro, Luego, Namabengo, Lumecha, Nahoro, Ukiwayuyu, Kumbara, Mtakanini, Songambele, Migelegele, Nangero, Mwinuko, Ruvuma, Nambehe, Misufini, Namahimba, Muungano, Sasawala, Liwawa, Mlalawima and Mnalawi. He said the project involves taking KV 33 electricity to 23 villages that would cover a distance of 56.3 kilometres and connect electricity to 875 houses at $657,815.10 million and 4.034 bn/- costs. The Makambako-Songea was completed in September 2018 by distributing electricity to various villages in Namtumbo and nearing districts as earlier launched by President John Magufuli on 5th April 2019. In 2016 REA announced the beginning of the implementation of the Rural Electrification Programme Phase III, a project that aims to electrify more than 7,873 villages in rural Tanzania for 5 years. In the approach, 7,697 villages will be connected to the national grid, while the remaining 176 will be connected to other energy sources. The project is being implemented by private contractors and supervised by REA, the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) and a Trust Agent. As of June 2016, 4,395 villages in Tanzania were connected to electricity during Phase I and II of the project.