THE presence of the shifting sands in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), is among the factors for the area to be recognised by the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), as the first geological site in south of the Sahara. Tanzania became the first Geological site in sub-Saharan countries, but the second in Africa, after Morocco. It is titled ‘Ngorongoro Lengai UNESCO Global Geo-park’ wherein the shifting sands are believed to have resulted from the basaltic lavas erupted from Mountain Oldoinyo Lengai between two and three million years ago. The sand is grey to dark grey in color and magnetic in nature, which moves by the action of wind from East to West showing a magic movement of about 17 metres annually. The movement of the sand usually forms the half-moon shaped feature. When the wind blows, the back part of this half-moon-shaped sand starts to move, waiting for others at the next stop, until the whole sand package has piled up there. “The shifting sand is a unique site in Ngorongoro-Lengai Geopark. The height of the sand dune is at least 2m high. The sand kills vegetation when it covers them and it always takes time for the vegetation to grown again. It also kills insects”, says NCAA Cultural Heritage Officer, Selestinus Emmanuel. “Apart from such famous shifting sand, there is a new moving one (sand) (02°46’52.7”S, 35°36’15.7”E) in a place known as Ootuni on the way to Olkarien gorge from Serengeti Plain observation point. So, this new sand is now named Ootuni shifting sands and it is quiet similar to the famous shifting sand with the only difference that this new sand contains mica flakes (particles) and fossils mainly of spring hare and snail shells,” he says. The famous shifting sand area is one of the sites that receive many tourists. The Maasai practise rituals at the shifting sand point, begging for babies to barren women, praying for rains as well as praying for stoppage of livestock’s diseases. NCAA in collaboration with other stakeholders, including the Geological Survey of Tanzania (GST), are conducting research on what the shifting sands contain in terms of particles and their value. Apart from the on-going studies within the conservation area, NCAA also conducts researches in various parts of the country to discover other possible geo-park sites. “It is too early to mention the places with possible geological sites, but initial research shows that the (possible) areas are almost everywhere in our country,” explains Emmanuel. For promoting the availability of many more geo-park sites in Africa, NCAA was set to host the ‘First African International Conference on UNESCO Global Geo-parks’ this month in Arusha, but was postponed due to Covid-19. Titled: “Promotional and Management of Geological Heritage for Sustainable Development in Africa’, the conference was aimed at stimulating homogeneous development of UNESCO Global Geo-parks on the African continent. It was therefore the high time for many invited African countries to explain geological related resources available in their areas as well as promoting them (resource), to international geo-parks level, says Emmanuel. Conservation Commissioner, Dr Freddy Manongi commented that all NCAA activities have stopped as results of Covid- 19 outbreak. Most of the Authority’s operations and projects depend much on visitors, but NCAA recorded almost zero tourists since the outbreak. “In this low season-March to May, we used to earn 300m/-a day. Things have stopped,” he says.