THE Japanese government has contributed 1.5m US dollars to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) to support the implementation of the four-year Boresha Lishe nutrition project in rural areas of central Tanzania. Launched in 2017, the Boresha Lishe project aims to improve nutrition of 30,000 women and children through social behavior change communication, diversification of food production and distribution of specialized nutritious foods in Bahi and Chamwino districts in Dodoma Region and Ikungi and Singida Rural Districts in Singida Region. “In Tanzania, the government of Japan has been providing assistance in various sectors,” said Goto Shinichi, Ambassador of Japan to Tanzania. “This particular contribution is directed towards women and children in rural areas, supporting ‘Leaving no one behind’ of the 2030 agenda based on the important concept of human security. It will improve nutrition and income generation of the vulnerable groups.” The Boresha Lishe project works to improve knowledge on nutrition, dietary diversity and water, sanitation and hygiene practices (WASH). In addition, keeping small-scale livestock, planting diverse crops and mobilizing VICOBA are promoted, increasing access to capital as well as nutritious foods. In collaboration with Japan, WFP is supplying and installing solar power kiosks to 40 village community banking groups (VICOBAs) supported under the Boresha Lishe project. The kiosks contain rechargeable rental devices such as lanterns and are operated as a business, providing income opportunities for the VICOBA and community members. “Through the Boresha Lishe project, WFP is adopting a multi-sectoral approach, combining the provision of specialized nutritious foods and behavioral change communication while enabling communities to access income generating activities,” said Michael Dunford, WFP Representative in Tanzania. For the supply and installation of solar power kiosks, WFP is working with a Japanese private company, leveraging its expertise accumulated through their business operations over the years.