THE Ruvuma Regional Commissioner (RC) is an unhappy person. A correspondent from Songea for the Custodian tells us why, in a news item titled “Ruvuma RC unhappy with Report from CAG” (May 11, p. 3): “Ruvuma Regional Commissioner, CM, is saddened by CAG report and has vowed to take stern measures against all workers who prompted Songea Municipal Council to receive ‘dirty and uncertain’ financial certificate in the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) report for year ended June 2019”. The CAG is empowered to audit the accounts of the government and other public bodies. In carrying out the audit, the CAG perceives and recognizes the propositions before him for examination, collects evidence, evaluates the same and on this basis formulates his judgment which is communicated through his audit report. The latter could draw a clean, adverse or qualified opinion. Or, sometimes, the CAG gives a “no opinion” verdict. In struggling to decipher what terms to use on the CAG verdict on the financial statements of the Songea Municipal Council, the correspondent chose to say that the Council got “dirty and uncertain financial certificate in the CAG’s report”. The appropriate terms are not: “dirty or uncertain”, but “adverse, qualified, or, no opinion”. The RC was really furious: “Getting dirty certificate should now be ‘awake call’ for all of us and make sure that we work hard and deliver on time. We have also to ensure that every concern raised by the CAG had to ‘be responded’”. We believe that by: “awake call” the correspondent had: “a wake-up call” in mind. A wake up call, under these circumstances means: “a thing that alerts people to an unsatisfactory situation and prompts them to remedy it”. Thus, getting an adverse or qualified opinion from the CAG is a wake-up call (not: “awake call”) for the officials of the Songea Municipality, to pull up their socks and get a clean opinion, next time around. In order to realize this feat, they have to make sure that every concern raised by the CAG is addressed or responded to (not “responded”). When the correspondent wrote that the CAG concerns have to be responded, he or she was clearly thinking in Swahili: Hoja inabidi zijibiwe!. On the same page of the Custodian, is a story filed in by a correspondent from Kidatu, reporting on another official who is unhappy. He is the Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office, responsible for the environment, popularly known as Zungu. The news item is titled “Zungu issues 10-day ultimatum on Kidatu dam impact report assessment” We think the title should be slightly modified to read: “Zungu issues 10-day ultimatum on Kidatu dam impact assessment report”, since what HE the Minister wants, is an impact assessment report, not an impact report assessment. He wants the assessment report fresh, not somebody’s assessment of the impact report. Before issuing his ultimatum, the Minister had been told that the Regional Government was educating people on the importance of conserving water sources as well as discouraging settlements near water sources and river banks to “shun floods during water seasons”. I would rewrite “shun floods during water seasons” into “be safe from floods during the rainy (or wet) seasons”. Commenting, a senior official is reported to have said: “the Minister’s directives have been received and already worked upon adding that the report would be ready within the ultimatum ‘tame frame’”. Surely it is not “tame frame” (unless the correspondent comes from Muleba where “i” is pronounced “ei” but written “a”). It is “time frame”. We end up by making a quick hop to Nigeria where the President of that country has appointed a new Chief of Staff, who, in his earlier life, is reported to have been “appointed the pioneer of Kwara State University, the ceremonial head that presides over ‘convictions’ to award degrees”. “Convictions to award degrees?” Sina mbavu! Surely it is “convocations to award degrees”! lusuggakironde@gmail.com