TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF), has released ‘a game operation strategies’ that will help to curb Coronavirus spread once government allows the return of other sports. The government has recently lifted restrictions and from June 1st this year, the Premier and the First Division leagues will resume about ten weeks since all sports activities were suspended in mid-March this year. The president of Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF), Phares Magesa said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the federation has already started to plan on how to run the safe game when other sports will be allowed to insure players, officials and all other stakeholders of the sport remains safe when the game bounces back to life. “We have prepared our safety strategies ready to be distributed to all affiliated members; We are doing this to adhere to the government and health ex- perts’ directives that enable Tanzanians to control the spread of Covid-19 during the game. “We, like others have to adhere to the directives from President John Ma- gufuli speech of May 21st and other directives from a ministry responsible for sports that wanted sports activities to take all preven- tive measures against Co- vid-19.” Magesa said that TBF has taken initiatives that should be followed as preventive measures during the basketball league and other activities. He said all regions, clubs and institutions affiliated to TBF should follow the new directives, but the initial rules and regulations of the game will remain un- changed. Among the new directives, according to Magesa mentioned among new directives include keenly following of Covid-19 up- dates at the area, city, or region and seek authorities’ permission before hosting any basketball event. Other new directive wants the organisers of regional level leagues to use more than one court to avoid conjunction during the league games and to use the event to educate participants and all involved people on the coronavirus pandemic. Organisers are also or- dered to insure the availability of a doctor and a thermometer before starting a match, put in place running water and soap while insuring everyone who is involved use them before entering the court. All fans who inter the courts have to be arranged a seat part from one another. He said facilities like balls to be used at game should be cleaned repeat- edly and the courts must allow ventilation.