AZAM FC vowed to continue the Mainland Premier League race from where they stopped as the prospects to resume the league are higher than before. This was said yesterday by the club's Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Abdulkarim Amin who insisted that the club is set to proceed the journey from where they left before the league’s suspension in mid-March. "We have heard that discussions are going on about the possible return of the league and for us, we are well prepared for that. What we know is that we are second on the table as such, any decision regarding the league will be positively welcomed. "As of now, we are still on the standstill waiting for the final decision from the concerned authorities about what will be the next move and with the speech from President John Magufuli who said he is waiting to be briefed by his advisors on possible resumption of the league, we just need to be prepared," said him. Recently, Azam extended Obrey Chirwa's contract to another year which will see him stay put at the Ice-cream makers side until 2020/2021 season and be able to play his responsibilities of hunting goals. "We agreed to stretch his contract because he is still a dependable player in our squad as such, his services are needed for the next season. He is a good player and the club is happy to have him," said the club's Information Officer Thabith Zakaria. However, Zakaria reiterated that the future of another striker Donald Ngoma still hangs in balance as the two sides have not met to discuss on possible contract extension. The Zimbabwean international joined Azam in 2018 from Young Africans but frequent injuries saw him enjoying limited playing time despite flourishing at his former club. Azam, who last won the Mainland Premier League title in 2014 are second on the league table with 54 points from 28 games and trail leaders Simba SC with 16 points from the similar number of games. Also, Azam are second after Simba in terms of goals they have so far scored in the league before it was halted. They have netted 37 goals against 63 converted by the defending champions. Iringa based Lipuli FC are third on the log in terms of more goals scored so far by a club in the league this term as they have netted 35 goals only two goals short from Azam FC. Bottom placed Singida United are the side with few goals (16) and conceded more goals (49) than any other team on the ladder no wonder relegation jaws are wide open for them this season.