RUNNING 37km per hour, Malaika Mihambo, a German lady, jumped 7.30m to win the IAAF Diamond L eague in Doha, Qatar in 2019 to become the world champion. Her name sounds too Tanzanian, but she is not. She was born of a Tanzanian father from Zanzibar and German mother, and she was brought up in Germany. Malaika Mihambo’s long jump masterly has not been felt by majority of Tanzanians whose athletics passion is far from restored. Probably Mihambo’s feat would go viral in Tanzania if she happened to be a marathoner, but as a long jumper, no one would have a slight interest today when field events like high jump, long jump, triple jump or discus, javelin or hammer throwing have been totally neglected. What Tanzanians don’t know about Malaika Mihambo is that she has jumped further than anyone in the last 15 years. She added the world long jump title to her European gold medal with one of the biggest leaps of recent years and raised her own personal best by 14 centimeters. Hers was the secondbest leap by anyone in the last 15 years, topped only by a 7.31 from Brittney Reese of the United States in 2016. The current world record for women is held by Galina Chistyakova of the former Soviet Union who leapt 7.52 m in L eningrad on 11 June 198 8 , a mark that has stood for over 32 years. To the Tanzanians, Malaika Mihambo has given us all proofs that we are naturally complete athletes capable of excelling in all disciplines. Going further deeper, Mihambo’s Tanzanian parentage has much to tell us about long jump and other field events. Malaika`s personal best is 7.30 which is far superior to our national record of 5.64 m set by Leticia Athanas on May 2nd ,198 3, about 37 years ago in Mwanza. Like long jump, the high jump also faces the same fate. The 1.70m high jump record set by Adventina Matakyawa in Dar es Salaam in 1980 has remained unbroken for 40 years and there was no serious attempt to reach it. Mutakyawa’s 1.70m record is very inferior to the world record of 2.09 m set by Stefka Kostadinova of Bulgaria) in 1987, it is also the longest-held record in the event. What Malaika Mihambo has done is crystal-clear that Tanzania is not solely a long distance races and marathon territory as the majority of us wrongly think. Tanzania’s banked on the middle sprint and middle distance races after the disciplines earned the country medals in All Africa Games of 1973 and the Commonwealth Games of Christchurch New Zealand in 1974. Filbert Bayi, who excelled in 800m and 1500m races, and Claver Kamanya who won bronze in 400m helped much to create the middle distance dominion. We became the marathon cultured after several good attempts from long distance masters such as Juma Ikangaa, Zakaria Barie, Gidamis Shahanga, Francis Naali, Samson Ramadhani, Simon Mrashani, Geway Suja and Christopher Isegwe. The success of Malaika, through her Tanzanian lineage, must serve as a wakeup call that Tanzanians can restore their athletics prowess if they work hard like in the past. But, again her success tells us we must rejuvenate our faded love for the field event. Javelin thrower Matilda Kisava who won a silver medal in All Africa Games of Cairo, Egypt in 1990 and Zakayo Marekwa who won bronze are the only medalists from the field events Tanzania has produced so far.