GOVERNMENT leaders, especially the youth, have a great lesson to pick from the late Dr Augustine Mahiga who was the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the late Justice Augustino Ramadhani--the retired Chief Justice (CJ) who were laid to rest yesterday. Representing President John Magufuli, Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan led mourners at the burial of the late Dr Mahiga at Tosamaganga cemetery in Iringa while Justice Ramadhani was laid to rest at Kingo'ong'o cemetery at Kimara in Dar es Salaam. Ms Samia said the death of Dr Mahiga had triggered great shock as he was a good leader who used his working experience and skills for the benefit of the country and that he was still needed by everyone in the country. “He was diligent and loved by everyone on the basis of his hard work and patriotism; Therefore, that his death is a big blow to the government and the country but we have to learn from him," she said. She pointed out that Mahiga's death had not only touched Tanzanians but the international community as he had an exposure of representing Tanzania abroad as he also worked with the United Nations (UN). According to her, Dr Mahiga's contributions in the fifth phase administration from day one when he was appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation to his last post, will be remembered by all in the government. Her views were seconded by the Deputy Speaker of the Parliament, Dr Tulia Ackson, who noted that the National Assembly had lost a great leader and a role model who was cooperative to everyone. She said Parliament will remember him for his wisdom and various advices that he was volunteering on the basis of his expertise and leadership experience. "We have learnt a lot from his services and we shall continue to observe all the good things he has done for the country; As the parliament we are saddened by his demise," she further remarked. During his life time, Dr Mahiga served as Acting Director General of Tanzania Intelligence and Security Services (TISS) for three years from 1980 to 1983. The Director General of TISS, Commissioner of Police Diwani Athumani described the late Mahiga as a role model as his contributions within and outside the country would be remembered across all generations. "We all know that he worked not only for Tanzania but also for many other countries; He was such a nice person for everyone," he said, adding: "I spoke to him four days before his death; He was energetic as usual and we agreed on a number on issues that had to be done, but unfortunately he has gone, we shall miss him". The Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Mr William Lukuvi and the Iringa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Ally Hapi, praised the deceased not only for his good services but for being helpful to all who needed his support and advice. "He was down to earth despite all the responsibilities he shouldered for the nation; we have something great to learn from him," said Mr Lukuvi. Other roles in which he served was Tanzania’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations (UN) from 2003 to 2010 and the UN Special representative and head of political office for Somalia between 2010 and 2013. At the requiem mass held at St Alban’s Anglican Church in Dar es Salaam for the late former Chief Justice Augustino Ramadhani, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, recalled the spiritual and professional contributions that the deceased offered. He explained that the deceased was smart and wise enough to handle the multiple roles he had in the country; His death has triggered endless tears for all Tanzanians. "I worked with him in various roles ; He was a man of the people who had the fear of God, in respect of which he also worked for the Church after his retirement," he recalled. Elaborating, the minister said due to his wisdom, knowledge, ability and patriotism, no wonder the late Justice Ramadhani was able to serve the country and community in various roles. "Personally, I knew him a long time ago; I worked with him when he was the Chief Justice and I was the Dean of the School of Law at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM); He was a good leader," "Among his contributions, the deceased played a crucial role in the reforms of the laws in Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar, he will be remembered forever," Prof Kabudi remarked further. The minister was of a view that, the life of the late Justice Ramadhani was a lesson to all Tanzanians, especially public servants to exploit their talents to the maximum possible. The retired CJ died at Aga Khan Hospital in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday at the age of 75 after a long illness. He had a varied and distinguished CV. He was also Brigadier General of in the Tanzanian People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) and was an Anglican Priest as well as the President of African Court of Human and Peoples Right (AfCHPR). During his burial, the late CJ received the 11 gun salute from TPDF.