AS the world wages a spirited battle against the ravaging Covid-19, it is worth praise that top Roman Catholic Church leader, Pope Francis has called upon believers across the globe, to place aside their religious differences to hold a special prayer on May 14th and seek the divine intervention of God in the fight against the pandemic. This coincidentally falls during the Holy month of Ramadan when Muslims are also globally seeking the divine intervention of God, because He is the Almighty Allah who has answers for all calamities any man may experience. Only mid last month President John Magufuli was the first leader in the world to direct the nation to hold a three-day national prayer to seek God’s mercy in taming the spreading of the deadly disease. On Thursday, Americans honoured the National Day of Prayer and used the occasion for special prayers against the Covid-19. The event at the White House was dominated by prayers from religious leaders for an end to the coronavirus. Thus, the Pope’s call should be supported because it is purely for the sake of salvaging mankind from the pangs of the disease that knows no race, religion and one’s socio-economic status in life. As a proposal put forward this week by the Higher Committee of Human Fraternity (HCHF), to the religious leaders and faithful around the world, the day that would involve fasting, prayers and supplications should not be politicised, but observed genuinely like any other special day dedicated to God. In his support for the Committee’s call Pope Francis said: “Since prayer is a universal value I welcome the proposal of the Higher Committee for Human Fraternity that believers of all religious should unite spiritually on May 14th for a day of prayer, fasting and works of charity to implore God to help humanity overcome the Coronavirus pandemic. “Remember: May 14, all believers together, believers of different traditions, to pray, fast, and do works of charity.” It is worth praising that Judge Mohamed Abdel Salam, Secretary-General of the Committee (HCHF), reinforcing it by saying: “The overwhelming response with this call for prayer from leaders and peoples around the world is a true testament to human solidarity and grants us hope in achieving global unity based on human fraternity principles for the safety, security and health of all mankind.” We should also dedicate the day to pray for our scientists and researchers to succeed in finding the eagerly-awaited cure that would treat all mankind regardless of one’s political background and location.