DRACONIAN stay-at-home orders and shutting all non-essential businesses had little effect on fighting coronavirus in Europe, according to a study. But the same scientists discovered closing schools and banning all mass gatherings did work in halting outbreaks across the continent. University of East Anglia researchers now say relaxing the stay-at-home policy and letting some businesses reopen could be the UK's first step to easing lockdown. The findings throw into question whether Britain's total lockdown - announced on March 23 - was necessary. Other top scientists have claimed Britain's Covid-19 crisis peaked and started to decline before lockdown began, arguing that Number 10's drastic policy to shut the UK down was wrong. It comes after Boris Johnson yesterday confirmed that strict rules imposed under the six-week coronavirus lockdown will start to be eased on Monday. The Prime Minister will outline a five-step plan for Britain's 'second phase' on Sunday, with the government set to drop its 'Stay at Home' message. UEA researchers looked at a range of social distancing measures adopted across 30 European countries. They cautioned that the study, which was funded by the National Institute for Health Research Health Protection Research Unit in Emergency Preparedness and Response at King's College London and Public Health England, is experimental. Banning mass gatherings, along with closing schools and some non-essential businesses, particularly in the hospitality sector, were the most effective ways of stopping the spread of the disease, the researchers found. They said that more investigation is needed on the use of face coverings in public, as the current results, which do not support using them in public, were 'too preliminary'. One of the scientists involved in the research, Dr Julii Brainard, said they found clear distinctions between which measures were more effective. “We found that three of the control measures were especially effective and the other two were not,” she told BBC Radio 4 this morning. “It pains me to say this because I have kids that I'd like to get back into education, but closing schools was the most effective single measure, followed by mass gatherings. “[This was] followed by what were defined... as the initial business closures. So that was the point when, in the UK for instance, they closed gyms and clubs. “Adding very little additional effect was the stay-at-home measure, surprisingly, and the additional business closures.” The researchers looked at the number of cases and deaths taken from daily published figures by the European Centre for Disease Control. These were compared with the start dates of different measures, including the restriction of mass gatherings, the closure of schools and different types of businesses, stay-at-home orders and the wearing of face masks. Lead researcher Professor Paul Hunter, from UEA's Norwich Medical School, said the study shows that school closures in Europe had “the greatest association with a subsequent reduction in the spread of the disease”, but it does not clarify the ongoing puzzle of whether children can pass Covid-19 to adults. He said: “And it does not identify which level of school closure has the most impact, whether it is primary, junior, senior school or even higher education. “It's also important to remember that our results are based on total closure, so it is possible that partial school closures could have worthwhile impacts on the spread of infection.” Banning public and private mass gatherings was another key tool in fighting the spread of the virus. Professor Hunter noted that the size of the current banned mass gatherings varied between countries and so the importance and impact of the scale of the individual event is still not clear. Dr JuliiBrainard, of UEA's Norwich Medical School, said the researchers were 'really surprised' to learn that stay-at-home orders may not be needed to control the outbreak, provided that this did not lead to more mass gatherings. It was found that these stay-home policies were not linked with a decline in incidences, and that as the number of lock-down days increased, so did the number of cases. Differences in how the countries carried out these policies have ranged from them being an advisory notice in some places, while elsewhere they were orders which were enforced by police with penalties. The shut-down of non-essential businesses, which included places where people gathered such as pubs, leisure centres, restaurants and venues, also had an impact on the spread of infection in each country. Professor Hunter said: “This suggests that keeping some businesses closed, particularly in the hospitality and leisure sector, would have the most impact. “However, we also know that while outbreaks of food poisoning are frequently linked with restaurants, outbreaks of other respiratory infections generally in the hospitality sector are fairly rare.” Dr Joshua Moon, of the University of Sussex Business School, noted that differences in testing rates and strategies in each country would have an impact on the number of cases. He said the study may indicate that stay-at-home orders could be the first things to be relaxed. Dr Moon said: “We have to remember that decisions like this cannot and should not be made on a single finding. “Nor should policy be made based solely upon science – there are many social, economic, political, and moral factors to consider that science simply cannot answer. “When it comes to this pandemic, caution is paramount, otherwise we could tip too far and risk a second wave and a return to lockdown.” Researchers from the University of Newcastle, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and Tshwane University of Technology in South Africa are also part of the study team. Experts not involved with the research said the difficulty lies in separating the effects of individual restrictions when, in many cases, they were introduced at the same time. Dr Brainnard addressed this in her Radio 4 interview, saying: “Because none of the countries implemented all of the measures, and there was variable timing, we can kind of look at separate timings.” Professor Keith Neil, an epidemiologist at the University of Nottingham, said: “The main limitation of the study is that in many countries, various measures were put in place at the same time, making it difficult to disentangle which effects were having an impact. The strength lies in looking at data from 30 countries. “The more of the lockdown restrictions that have a minimal, if any, benefit in controlling spread that are then relaxed, the better the physical and mental health of the country will be. “They found stay-at-home orders and closure of non-essential businesses appear to have minimal effects on transmission prevention. Relaxing these would therefore likely to have minimal adverse consequences on the epidemic. “In controlling spread, their main finding was that school closures were important. As many schools have now gone, or soon will go, back in Europe the impact of school closures and the re-opening will become apparent and help the UK’s exit strategy with real data. “Next of importance was the banning of mass gatherings comes as no great surprise and also has little impact on the economy overall if it needs to be continued. “Overall the paper helps those planning the exit strategy with some more science.”