VIETTEL Tanzania PLC (Halotel) and five senior officials with the telecom firm now seek intervention of Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to end the 78bn/-criminal trial they are facing at Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court. This was revealed before the Dar es Salaam Court yesterday when Principal Resident Magistrate, Thomas Simba, was informed that the accused have written to the DPP, requesting to enter into a plea bargain agreement in order to summarily dispose the case. It was Advocate Majura Magafu, for the accused persons, who introduced the new development to the court in front of the prosecution led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, who briefed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. Following the briefing, Mr Magafu, who was assisted by defence Counsel Idd Msangi, who rose up and explained that on April 21, 2020, his clients wrote a letter to the DPP, expressing their intention to end the trial through the newly introduced plea bargaining process. According to the seasoned lawyer, they met with State lawyers from the DPP Office to see how far the request of the accused persons has been worked on, so that the case is determined through such procedure as applied for. “Our strategy could not succeed because we were told the DPP, who is required to issue the consent to this court regarding the case was in Dodoma. We are following up the matter and we have also been informed that he is at the Lake Zone and would be in Dodoma at the middle of this week,” Mr Magafu said. He told the court that they would continue negotiations and, thus, requested the court to adjourn the trial to next Friday to see whether his clients’ request has been accepted. In his response, trial attorney informed the court that the negotiations were ongoing and have not been concluded. Under such circumstances, he proposed the case to be adjourned to normal days of 14 days. The magistrate granted the prosecution’s request and adjourned the trial to May 18, saying removal order would be issued to bring the accused to court if the negotiations would be completed within this week. The company official facing the trial, all Vietnamese nationals are  Son Anh Nguyen (46), the Managing Director, Nguyen Binh Minh (40), a Manager, Ha Min Tuan (39), whose official capacity identified as CTO, Vu Van Tiep (30), a Manager and Nguyen Thanh Cong (35), the Chief Financial Officer. They are charged with 10 counts of leading organised crime, failure to observe assignment requirements, fraudulent use of network facility and fraudulent traffic, money laundering and occasioning loss of 78bn/-to the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA). Prosecution alleged that the accused committed the offences between 2016 and 2020 within United Republic of Tanzania, in particular, in the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that on diverse dates between June 8, 2017 and March 26, 2020 at Mikocheni area in Kinondoni District and at various places within the United Republic of Tanzania, jointly and together they connived to reap profit in an intentionally organised a criminal racket. The court heard that within the same period and places, jointly and together, the accused persons allegedly used radio frequency spectrum with microwave frequency of two different channels without obtaining relevant individual assignment from TCRA. It is alleged also that between July 7, 2016 and March 26, 2020 at Mikocheni area and various places within the country and unknown places within the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, all accused persons created a system designated to fraudulently use network facility, which is Virtual Private Network (VPN). The prosecution alleged that within the same period at Mikocheni area in Dar es Salaam, with intent to avoid payments to TCRA, the accused persons fraudulently used telecommunication facilities by setting up VPN connection between Viettel Tanzania PLC and Viettel Vietnam. On diverse dates between June 8, 2017 and March 26, 2020 at Mikocheni area in Kinondoni District and at various places within the United Republic of Tanzania, by their willful acts, the accused persons allegedly used the radio frequency channels causing TCRA to suffer pecuniary loss of 75bn/-. The prosecution alleged that between July 7, 2016 and March 26, 2020 at Mikocheni area and various places within Tanzania, by their willful acts, the accused created the system designated to fraudulently use network facility to Socialist Republic of Vietnam, thus causing loss of 3,036,000,000/-to TRCA. Halotel officials were charged with money laundering in that within the same period and places in Tanzania, they acquired the 3.036bn/-while knowing at the time of acquisition that the money was proceeds of predicate offence of fraud and related offences and participating in organised criminal group and racketing. Viettel Tanzania PLC was also separately charged with money laundering involving the same amount. The court heard further that between June 8, 2017 and March 26, 2020 at Mikocheni area in Kinondoni District, the company officials and Halotel, respectively, acquired a total of 75bn/-. The prosecution alleged that at the time of such acquisition, the money involved was proceeds of predicate offence of participating in an organised criminal group and racketing. 