ZANZIBAR salvaged over 200m/- which could have been lost through corrupt and economic crimes as of March 2020, the House of Representatives heard here yesterday. Minister of State, President’s Office, Public Service and Good Governance, Haroun Ali Suleiman, presenting the ministry’s 2020/2021 budget estimates, appreciated the impressive work done by Zanzibar Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Authority (ZAECA) to curb corruption in the country. He said the authority, through its anti-corruption and economic crimes initiatives, raised public awareness on appropriate measures against the crimes and thoroughly investigated graft related crimes. As of March 2020, ZAECA reported 70 various cases of corruption, including bribe solicitation and receipt of bribes, misuse of public resources and tax evasion. Minister Suleiman said 11 files had already been referred to the Director of Public Prosecution for appropriate legal measures, adding that the authority had embarked on its national strategic plan to fight corruption and economic sabotage by raising awareness among ministries, departments and various public institutions. The authority is closely monitoring public expenditures on major development projects in the country to ensure value for money, said the minister. He noted that eight construction projects in education, construction and communications sectors were under ZAECA watch to establish any faults in their execution. The authority has conducted 74 public meetings in Unguja and Pemba to educate the public on corruption and economic crimes. ZAECA also offered training to 24 secondary schools on the importance of participating in the fight against the social and economic evil. “Efforts by the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar against corruption and economic sabotage have yielded huge benefits through increased discipline, integrity and responsibility in public service, trade, revenue collections and expenditure of public money,” Minister Suleiman told the House. The achievements have put in place solid foundations for the country’s economic growth and increased efficiency in service delivery to wananchi. ZAECA has since its establishment in 2012 received 925 various corruption and economic sabotage related cases, with investigations on 183 files completed and referred to DPP. According to the minister, 28 cases were taken to court with nine of them having already been concluded. The remaining 726 cases are still under investigations, he said.