FOOTBALL clubs in the country have been encouraged to include some of their former players in scouting departments, so as to assist in identifying new potential players, who can positively have impact to the team. This comes amid concerns from sports stakeholders that most of the player signing deals are accomplished by club leaders without the consent of coaches, who directly work with the players. “I think this is the right moment to change the existing philosophy of player recruitment, whereby some few people in the club do it for interest without involving those who will be working with the players (coaches). “Big clubs like Simba, Young Africans and even Azam have their good former players, who should be included in their scouting teams or registration committees for them to go out to search prolific talents and recommend them to the coach for him to make final decisions,” suggested former Simba SC Assistant Coach Jamhuri Kihwelo. He added that it was unfair to learn that most teams have registration committees, which do their responsibilities of searching new players and signing them without seeking opinion of coaches. “If a coach is not involved in the process of recruiting players, later, if the team under performs, all the blame is directed to him, which in some cases lead to his sacking. “Leaders of the club should only be included during the negotiation phase of the player as to what things he is entitled to have like a car, house and other privileges depending on the quality of the player and not in the initial chapter of the signing process,” he said. Again, Kihwelo attacked the tendency of some club leaders, who interferes in the making of the lineup by coaches, saying that should never be entertained in sports. “On several occasions, I have experienced such scenarios whereby leaders were interfering with the lineup I was making for the team, which is totally unfair because coaches are supposed to work independently,” he stressed. He continued that due to his refusal not to let club leaders interfere in his coaching roles, he is never wanted again at Simba, while insisting that if you deny their requests, you become their enemy. In his contribution on the same topic, Singida United Director Festo Sanga said he is aware that club leaders are highly involved in player signings, saying that tendency is killing Tanzania football.