THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), reiterated that they are in the final stages to prepare the national football syllabus which will be distributed to all registered youth developing centres in the country. Once completed and shared with the youth centres, the syllabus is aimed to help a lot in developing the national football philosophy which will be the identity of Tanzania football. Elaborating on the initiative yesterday was TFF Technical Director (TD), Oscar Mirambo who insisted that they are just waiting for further discussion on the syllabus before being distributed to the targeted centres. "What I can say is that the project is almost complete, but due to the prevailing condition of Covid-19 scare, we have slowed down its implementation but we are on the right track to facilitate it," he said. He added that if football development is to be realised in the country, then all youth developing centres should have the common syllabus to be imparted to the upcoming players. He then mentioned some of the qualities for the centres to benefit from the proposed syllabus that they should have youth football experts who can easily train young players, good playing facilities and a physical address for them to be reached easily. "There is nowhere we can inject the national football philosophy apart from these centres where youth of different age groups are groomed before they mature to join big clubs and even national teams. "We have already done a situation analysis before embarking on the project to see how effective the syllabus will be to the country and from what we observed, it will be the solution for our football development," cemented Mirambo. According to him, so far, there are 168 registered youth centres even though many others are yet to be registered. On his part, Magnet Youth Sports Academy-Technical Director Wane Mkisi said there is a serious problem of age cheating in the country when it comes to youth football development. "Those players who have the right age are deprived opportunity to showcase their potential by their colleagues who are older than them because the latter are given priority over the former. "I have visited different countries in the world with our youth teams and what I have seen is that tactically, we are better but physically we are poor due to the nutrition requirements to our players," said he. He therefore advised youth trainers to give young players training programs according to their age groups in order to develop them properly.