IN the wake of Covid-19, our Kiswahili is getting new vocabulary. One can mention the word “barakoa” which is now understood by many in the country to mean a face mask. Barakoa is now an essential wear to contain the spread of Covid-19. Many entrepreneurs, have embarked on the importation or production of barakoas and they seem to be making brisk business. The other trendy word is Kashwagala. This is herbal plant, well-known and used in parts of the country, but which has suddenly come to the fore as a result of the popularisation of steam therapy as a way of preventing or relieving the symptoms of Covid-19. Kashwagala is now considered an essential ingredient in steam therapy which many mighty and lowly, including MPs, are currently practicing. Some have posted their pictures on social media after engaging in the therapy, showing themselves partly bare, and sweating profusely from the effects of the steam (plus Kashwagala of course). In searching for the scientific name for Kashwagala, Basil and Tulsi come to mind, though these two words do not mean one and the same thing. The botanical name for tulsi is ocimum tenuiflorum, and that for basil, is ocimum basilicum. The edible basil leaves are mainly used for culinary dishes, whereas tulsi is mainly used as an indigenous medicinal ingredient. The scientific name for Kashwagala seems to be tulsi. Is Kashwala being used properly? In a front page news item titled: “Steam therapy cited as helpful”, the Secretary General of the Tanzanian Traditional Medicine Organisation is quoted to have called upon experts and other stakeholders ‘to device’ ways of safeguarding traditional remedies and ensure their proper use by the public. “Device ways”? No. Device is a noun meaning an object, tool, machine or piece of equipment that has been made for the purpose of facilitating doing something. Therefore, the writer did not have “device” in mind. Instead, he meant to write “devise”, a verb which means to plan or invent a complex procedure, system or mechanism by careful thought. We see for example that the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) has devised and proposed ways of getting maximum benefits from steam therapy. So have other organisations and individuals. For that reason, I am a convert to steam therapy especially in the light of the threat the country is facing from Covid-19. On page 11 of the same paper, the authoritative Daily Blog, we find an article titled: “Taking the bull by the horns, Juliana dares to dream”, a piece that paints good hope for the future. The writer tells us what a young scientist is doing: “Juliana (29) practices aquaculture, or in simple words, ‘to rare’ fish to maturity and all those things that surround the trade’” “To rare fish”? You may think there is a typing error here’ but the writer does not think so. Mid-way through the article we are informed: “She trains people on proper ‘fish-raring’ husbandry. The writer praises the young scientist: “She is part of Tanzania’s unsung heroes and heroines”. But she surely is not “raring fish” whatever that means. There is no verb “to rare”. There is an adjective, “rare” which means an event that does not happen often. If an object is rare, there aren’t many of its kind. Rare comes from the Latin word “rarus” meaning, “widely-spaced”. The young lady scientist is rearing (not ‘raring’) fish from eggs, to maturity. To rear means to breed and raise animals. It also means to grow or cultivate plants. Given that Kashwagala is rare, there is need to devise ways of rearing this plant so that society can reap its herbal and medicinal benefits and to meet the current high demand for it. Off to my self-steaming therapy session (twice a day). I hope you are doing so as well. See you next week. lusuggakironde@gmail.com