ZANZIBAR President, Ali Mohamed Shein is ending his second and final term in office this year. He is now counting days before handing over to his successor after the October General Elections. Both the National Electoral Commission (NEC), responsible to handle union elections, and the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC), tasked to handle elections in Zanzibar have already blown the whistle for the October polls after the Union President, Dr John Magufuli assured the bodies and Tanzanians that elections will be held as per timetable. President Magufuli said that despite the Covid-19 threat, elections will be held and people should get prepared for the democratic process. So far the electoral bodies have started preparations. While people and institutions in Zanzibar are probably planning on how best they can bid farewell to Dr Shein, workers through their Zanzibar Trade Union Congress (ZATUC), open up the door of farewell using this year’s May Day to give him a farewell message. “Thank You, you have done a lot for us. We wish you the best in your retirement!” their message read. ZATUC praised Dr Shein for contributing heavily to the development of their welfare, private sector, infrastructure, social services, and industrialisation. The workers said Dr Shein would be remembered for his outstanding leadership, pragmatism, accountability, transparency, respect, good governance and commitment in the country. In their statement, signed by their Secretary General, Khamis Mwinyi Mohamed, they said President Shein contributed to improve the lives of the people of Zanzibar, which included many areas of development, delivering results and building strong partnerships with workers. According to the statement ZATUC commended all workers led by Dr Shein who played an important role in the country’s social services along with the implementation of the ongoing tripartite agreement (government, employers/industry, and trade union), in an effort to reduce complaints at workplace and unemployment. They said that May Day, which is celebrated as the day of unity and solidarity of workers and labourers across the world, had the theme (Zanzibar) “As workers we have the responsibility to fight and win Covid-19 and peacefully take part in upcoming general elections.” ZATUC mentioned some of the successes under Dr Shein as maintaining ‘peace and political stability,’ job creation of which the government employed 11,000 youth in different public institutions during his period, and improved welfare of the public servants and employees in private sector. President Shein reviewed basic salary and other allowances for both pubic servants and in private sector reforming basic salary from 150,000/-to 300,000/-in the government, and in private sector basic salary climbed from below 50,000/-to 180,000/-or above depending on the economic status of the employer. The workers also praised Dr Shein for ensuring that public servants regulations and the Zanzibar Universal Pensions Scheme (ZUPS), are legally backed by introducing laws; Improvement of the infrastructure (roads network, buildings, improved working environment), and improvement of health and education in the Isles under free of charge policy. Most of the major roads in Unguja and Pemba have been improved or under construction, an advantage to workers as roads ease link between regions and also speeds up communication among workers. Health sector has been improved drastically with implementation of ‘free health care policy,’ which means that workers are able to access health services, and work hard for the development of the country. Universal Pension Scheme was introduced in 2016 as honour and respect to senior citizens (include retired workers), at the age of 70 and above receive monthly payment of 20,000/-, “We are happy with pension. We thank President Ali Mohamed Shein for recognising our contribution to the nation.” Already President Shein is considering increasing the pension before he retires from office this year. ZUPS, a non-contributory, universal scheme is the first of its kind in East Africa region. Mr Ibrahim Omar Hajji, 81, a retired worker and senior citizen expressed his appreciation for Dr Shein’s commitment to help them live better by getting basic needs health care, housing and the monthly ‘stipend’ to all elderly regardless of political affiliation and employment background. Hajji represents other retired workers to thank Shein for the great work done for them since taking over as President and now preparing to retire, “We will always remember and pray for you so that you also enjoy your future as a retired worker.” The workers also commended the government for its efforts in combating Coronavirus, as they asked the government to ensure health workers caring for Covid-19 patients are provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), motivated and insured because of working in difficult environment. In the statement, the workers also suggested that it is important to continue controlling illegal entry of people coming in the country to minimise spread of the Covid-19; Ensuring that social distancing and hand washing at work places, and other preventive measures. The government should ensure that employers, who terminate contract with their employees due to low income caused by impact of Covid-19 on business, should pay the employees and avoid harassing the laid-off worker on pretext of Coronavirus pandemic. Other suggestions contained in the workers statement include “dialogue and use of tripartite in resolving challenges facing workers. The government should investigate into why still many employers in private sectors have not increased their employees’ salaries, and why in public offices some workers salary increment has not changed.” A tripartite agreement is a legal document that clearly states the obligations and responsibilities of all parties involved in the deal. It also elaborated the various terms and conditions that must be followed while carrying out the deal. The government should involve all institutions including ZATUC in the ongoing war against Covid-19, and the employers should ensure work places are equipped with sanitary equipment (water taps and soap), and thermo-scanners, and emergency services at work places, and that no employee should be denied payment on the pretext of impact of Covid- 19. Workers should be protected while on duty, and avoid unnecessary gatherings/crowd, and also remain safe and residents should follow the health precautions put in place by the ministry of health to minimize risk of contracting the disease. The Minister for Labour, Economic Empowerment, Elderly, Children and Women Development, Dr Maudline Cyrus Castico also shared words of appreciation to the President for playing a pivotal role in changing the lives of workers in the country. All the workers have joined together in sending our best wishes and our appreciation to Dr Shein, wishing him and his family all the best as he is soon getting time to spend with family; Children, and grandchildrens.