STATE Minister in the President’s Office for Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Selemani Jafo, has directed the Kibaha Education Centre (KEC), to wisely and economically tap its resources to grow. Launching a new board of KEC members here over the weekend, Mr Jafo, further said the institution has massive resources, which include vast piece of land in Kibaha District, Coast Region it can lease for investment. The Minister said the new KEC board that will be chaired by Prof Raphael Chibunda, should make it creative and able to generate revenues to run its own activities. However, he advised them to be smart and professional while investing resources in such a way that it continues to generate more revenues. “Kibaha Education Centre has massive resources, which include a vast piece of land in Kibaha that should be built and rented as Shops to generate more revenues. May I suggest that any investment by KEC should be profitable,” he said. Elaborating, he tipped the board to emulate Mwalimu Julius Nyerere vision, who advocated for self reliance, adding that the Father of the Nation established KEC in order to fight igno- rance, diseases and poverty, which are the three main enemies of the State. In a related development, Mr Jafo directed the board to improve services under it, naming them as Tumbi Hospital, College and Schools for the benefit of the surrounding communities. On the same note, he commended the institu- tion for coming up with local sterilized water production that is saving the gov- ernment from importing them abroad. On her part, Kibaha District Commissioner (DC), Ms Assumpter Mshana, who doubles as KEC Board Vice- Chairperson said the major challenge they face was a meager budget they have to develop. However, she urged the government to accept their proposals, saying: “We are stuck frequently because of the government’s delay to endorse our pro- posals to go ahead with the projects.” Commenting, KEC Board Chairman, Prof Chibunda, said they will implement the directives issued by the Minister, however, urged for coopera- tion from other institutions being super- vised by the Centre. “We see there is a need to overhaul the entire system to run the Kibaha Education Centre, and we want to see the vision of KEC in Schools and Tumbi Hospital,” he added.