ISLAMIC leaders have reiterated their appeal to worshippers to continue taking cautionary measures that include avoiding unnecessary movements by staying at their homes, to avoid contamination and spread of Coronavirus, in keeping with advice by health experts. They said that as leaders they have a primary obligation of ensuring that all people are safe and healthy and that during this period when Covid-19 is a global health crisis, it is advisable for believers to stay in isolation for some time until the situation improves. The leaders raised their voices in an online panel discussion on Ramadan response to Coronavirus hosted by the global Interfaith WASH alliance in Collaboration with Unicef Tanzania and Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council (WSSCC). Reference was made to the Holy Q uran that lays stress on everybody to protect one’s life. “In this situation where the virus can easily spread in mass gatherings, it is advisable that people should stay at home and do everything there, including prayers and taking care of their families; it isn’t necessary for them to go to mosques although they aren’t closed, said one of the panelists, Sheikh Mohammed Abdi. He is the deputy Mudiir and board member of Tanzania Ithna Asheri Community. The view was seconded by Sheikh Khalid Ali Mfaume, Secretary General of the Office of the Mufti of Zanzibar and Sheikh Haroun Rashid Kasangaki, the Secretary General of the Union of Muslim Councils for East, Central and Southern Africa. By doing so, he said, they would also be complying with the scriptures from the Q uran. He said prayers can be held anywhere besides mosques, the crucial thing being faith in God, who responds accordingly. However for those who prefer to go to mosques, they should observe all required preventive measures such as maintaining social distancing by staying one meter apart, wearing facemasks and regular hand washing by using running water. The leaders expressed concern over the discrimination related to people who are infected with Covid-19 and the relatives of those who died from the virus. The trend, they lamented, wasn’t health for the well being of the community and violated the sentiments highlighted in holy books. The clerics stressed that all of them should continue preaching peace and educate believers on how to cope with the situation to end discrimination. “As religious leaders, we have the responsibility of giving right information and education to all believers. Nobody should be discriminated due to Covid-19, a disaster that covers us all,” noted Sheik Issa Othman Issa, the grand Imam of the Masjid Ma’amur and member of the Muslim Scholarly Committee (Ulemaa). They also asked the government to ensure that those who died of coronvirus were laid to rest according to their religious procedures while observing all preventive measures. The call stems from complaints that the bodies of individuals who pass on due to Covid-19 were being buried by the government without consultations with family members of the deceased. “We have written to the government on this issue; it would be ideal for the deceased to be buried in compliance with religious norms,” noted Sheikh Abdi. The meeting was chaired by Ms Sadhvi Bhagawati Saraswatiji, the secretary general of Global WASH Alliance and President of Divine Shakti Foundation. Others in attendance were the general coordinator of Al-Azhar Centre for Interfaith dialogue Dr Kamal Hassan, President of Parmarth Niketan Mr Pujya Saraswatiji, Regional director of United Religions Initiative for Africa Ambassador Mussie Hailu and Sheikh Othman Mohamed Saleh, senior advisor to the Mufti of Zanzibar.