TANZANIA is waiting for official notification on Zambia’s decision to close the Nakonde border post. According to reports, Zambia has decided to close its Nakonde border post that provides access to Tanzanian side at Tunduma border, in Songwe region. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, Tanzanian's High Commissioner to Zambia Hassan Simba said he had not yet received any official communication from his host government regarding their latest decision. Ambassador Simba said he only read the report on the media, and that he wrote to Zambian authorities seeking clarification on the matter before the Tanzanian government could also make appropriate decisions. “I’m waiting for their feedback so that I can send a full report to our government for a possible solution to the problem,” he explained. When reached for clarification, the head of Government Communications Unit at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Emmanuel Buhohela said the ministry was making a follow up on the matter. According to media reports, Zambian President Edgar Lungu opted to close the border post after 76 new cases of Coronavirus were reported in Nakonde. So far, Zambia has recorded a total of 267 cases of coronavirus, 117 recoveries, and seven deaths while active cases are 143.
“President directed that with effect from Monday 11th May, 2020, the Nakonde border will be temporarily closed. There shall be no traffic in and out of Nakonde,” Zambian Minister for Health Dr Chitalu Chilufya was quoted as saying at a COVID-19 press briefing on Sunday. Nakonde is the main gateway for Zambia to Tanzania linking it to the Port of Dar es Salaam for which all cargoes from and to Zambia are passing through. The border also provides access for Zambia to other countries forming the Southern African Development Community (SADC). In the early of April, the Council of Ministers of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) held a video conference where among others, they passed a resolution that warrants undisrupted flow of essential goods across the region throughout the COVID-19 outbreak. The move aimed at enabling landlocked countries in the SADC region to have access to vital goods and commodities to ease the socio-economic impact of the pandemic. Chairman of the SADC council of ministers, who is the Tanzania’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Prof Palamagamba Kabudi listed essential goods as medical supplies, food, protective gears, spares, agricultural inputs, fuel as well as food processing. “The council also approved guidelines on harmonisation and facilitation of cross border transport operation across the region, urging member countries to prevent unnecessary transportation of people at all border posts,” said Prof Kabudi during a media briefing.  