PRESIDENT John Magufuli has told workers in the country that the government values and recognizes their contribution in building the nation and it will continue to protect their interests and improve the work environment. The President extended his appreciations to workers in his statement issued yesterday through the Office of the Director of Presidential Communications under Mr Gerson Msigwa. The greetings to workers by the President is part of the celebrations to mark Workers’ Day which is internationally observed on May 1 each year. However, mid last month, President Magufuli called off this year’s celebrations as the event attracted huge gatherings, as one of the measures for curbing the spread of corona virus that causes the deadly disease Covid-19. Up to April 28, Tanzania had recorded a total of 480 confirmed cases of Covid-19 with 16 deaths and a total of 167 recovered patients. As was ordered by President Magufuli, the national celebrations to mark May Day that were supposed to be held yesterday were not conducted as part of the Covid-19 containment measures. It is a norm that workers across the country come together at a particular ground for national celebrations of their Day. They use the platform to showcase their works, skills and professions as well as air their grievances and challenges they face to authorities for solutions. In his statement to the media yesterday, the President called upon workers to continue working hard so that Tanzanians could continue benefiting from services they offer in their work places. But he was quick to caution that the workers must take all precautions as directed by health experts to protect themselves from Covid-19. "My fellow workers, I commend you for working hard, I am always with you and I recognize the good job you do, I urge you to continue working hard during this time when the world is passing through a hard time of fighting the coronavirus disease; the disease shouldn't pull you back and be a reason for you to stop serving Tanzanians. I believe that the God will help us overcome," Dr Magufuli said. Meanwhile, the Head of State hailed all employers, public and private sectors, and called upon them not to use the disease as a reason for mistreating their employees. The President used the opportunity to convey best wishes to all workers in the country.