BUSINESSMAN Edgael Lema has appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam facing ten economic related charges, including unlawful transportation of 18 containers stuffed with 5,296 tree logs, which are forestry products, valued at over 383m/-. The 43-year-old resident of Goba in the city was not allowed to enter plea to the charges when he was arraigned before Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. Other charges include leading organised crime, forgery of documents, uttering forged documents, fraudulent tax evasion and money laundering. The magistrate informed the court that her court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail. According to the law, money laundering is not a bailable offence. The case was adjourned to May 21, 2020 for mention. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution led by Senior State Attorneys Renatus Mkude and Materus Marandu, have not been completed. Prosecuting, the trial attorneys told the court that on diverse dates between November 2015 and January 2016 at unknown places within the United Republic of Tanzania, with other persons who are not in court, intentionally the accused person organized a criminal racket with intent to reap profit. Within the same period in Dar es Salaam, the accused person and others allegedly transported forestry products in 18 containers having 5,296 tree logs of African Rose wood, valued at 383,140,840/-, the property of the government, without seeking and granted a transit pass by an authorized officer. The court heard that between March 16 and May 14, 2015 at unknown places within Tanzania, Lema and other persons made false export permit and a phytosanitary certificate with different numbers, purporting that they were genuine documents issued by an authorised officer in the Republic of Zambia. It is alleged further that at an unknown date at Tanzania Port Authority Head Office within Ilala District, knowingly and fraudulently, the businessman and other persons presented the forged documents, purporting to have been issued by an authorised officer from the Zambian government, while it was false. The prosecution alleged that between November 2015 and January 2016 within the City of Dar es Salaam, with intent to evading payment of tax, the accused person submitted false documents to the Tanzania Revenue Authority, thereby evading tax of 383,140,840/-. On money laundering, the prosecution charged that within the same period in the city, Lema allegedly acquired the said sum of money, while he knew or ought to have known that the amount was the proceeds of predicate offence of fraudulent evasion of tax.