PERMANENT Secretary (PS), in the Agriculture Ministry, Mr Gerald Kusaya, has called for more local value added goods that are produced from crops so that the country could make major steps in both economic and social sectors. The PS made the directive here recently, pointing out that misunderstanding and continuous conflicts among cooperative leaders were a big setback in development. Mr Kusaya was speaking to Tanzania Cooperatives Development Commission (TCDC), management recently when he conducted a familiarization tour at the Commission Headquarters. He said TCDC leaders should closely supervise the commission’s business in order to make significant contribution and stop embezzling funds, because legal measures won’t spare any accused official. Mr Kusaya directed TCDC to pull up their socks as the whole government struggles to revive industries under cooperative unions, saying reviving the ailing industries will boost farmer’s income. He further urged the cooperative unions to support the fifth phase government’s effort to provide business operators with a conducive environment to improve the sector. “Let us seek for the best way to improve crop businesses. TCDC should revive cooperative unions to advocate for farmer’s rights,” he said. Mr Kusaya pointed out that the main challenges that farmers face include lack of packaging for system for their products, and that it should be turned into an opportunity. He said growing demand of agricultural inputs poses another challenge to farmers, saying cooperative unions should encourage business operators to set up agricultural input industries. Mr Kusaya directed TCDC to continue mobilizing strategic crops, which include cotton, tobacco, tea, coffee and cashews in order to increase raw materials. “Let us continue to mobilise farmers so that they can improve production of the said crops,” he said. Speaking on behalf of other commissioners, Commissioner Abdul Marombwa expressed gratitude to the PS for visiting the Commission Headquarters. “We promise you that TCDC will continue to accord cooperation to cooperative unions’ stakeholders for sustainable future in the agricultural sector,” he said.