FEW months before Tanzania conducts its general elections, Coalition of Women and Constitution has identified some legal gaps in the current election laws, which partially negate women participation in the elections. This was said in Dar es Salaam by Women Fund Tanzania (WFT) Chairperson, Prof Ruth Meena during a virtual meeting with journalists to present their recent findings on five elections law. WFT analysed five election laws including the National Elections Act 2015, Z anzibar Election Act 2018, Section 292 of the Local Government Authorities (Election) Act 1979, Local Government Act amended in 2002 and Local Government (Urban Authorities) Act—Cap 287 and 28 8 . Prof Meena said they identified some shortcomings in areas such as candidates’ selections, that is the basis to get most qualified candidate(s) and ultimately the best leaders. “The shortcomings are that all candidates, in the electoral process, must be members of political parties and must be nominated by the parties,” she said. According to her, despite gaps in the election laws, parties are still giving limited opportunities to women to participate in elections whereas in the last general election, women contestants from the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) accounted for nine per cent, Chadema (six per cent), ACT-Wazalendo (15 per cent) and the Civic United Front (CUF) (11 per cent). She said the number of women elected into parliamentary posts were still slim whereas in the 2005/2010 elections, 18 women that equals to eight per cent were elected as Members of Parliament, before the number increased slightly to 21 in 2010/2015, an equivalent of nine per cent. The number of elected women legislators increased to 25 equals to 9 per cent. Prof Meena further cited other shortcomings as insufficient funds, where most women cannot afford election costs and patriarch system in most communities, which have roots from the family level. The WFT Chairperson said despite the government’s good intention to introduce women special seats, women legislators are less privileged since they do not get the Constituency Development Fund (CDF), an additional means of financing given to Member of Parliaments for communitydriven development. “There should be amendments into the elections act to allow Special Seats’ legislators to be appointed to the positions of Prime Minister and there should be a time limit for Special Seats MPs, its implementation should consider gender equality,” said Prof Meena. Prof Meena noted that in Tanzania Mainland, Special Seats legislators could not be appointed to lead some of the Parliamentary Standing Committee, such as the Ethics and Finance committees. At Full Council meetings, Special Seats Councillors are not allowed to act on the chairmanship position. She, however, noted that analysed laws provide equal chances for people to participate in the voting exercise. Prof Meena said the election law(s) should be clear, comprehensive and transparent and should ensure that no element of the electoral process disadvantages women either directly or indirectly. For example, election laws requiring candidates to post large monetary deposits can work against women