TRYING moments like this one as the world battles with the coronavirus pandemic are times humans express their need of God and ask him for help. “Like the Israelites during Prophet Moses’ time, we have an opportunity to pray for the world. We should remember Pope Francis, the Vatican and the Church in general during our prayers.” Those were words of Bishop Ludovick Minde (ALCP/OSS) of the Catholic Diocese of Moshi, calling on Tanzanians to thank God, President John Magufuli and his government for allowing the faithful to continue going to houses of worship and at the same time fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic. Bishop Minde said this on Sunday during Holy Mass to mark the fifth Easter Sunday, which was celebrated at Christ the King Cathedral in Moshi. He said it was a special grace for Tanzanians of all religions and denominations to have the opportunity to continue worshiping in their respective houses of worship. “I believe President Magufuli responded to the call he received from the Almighty God and decided to allow Tanzanians to continue worshiping in their respective houses of worship and that is why we are here today. This is a unique opportunity and privilege for Tanzanians to fight against Covid-19. Let us take this opportunity to pray for the nations which don’t have this opportunity across the world.” “Even the Vatican, which is the headquarters of our Church, the Pope and the faithful do not have the opportunity to hold regular Holy Mass since mid-March this year. I appeal to you all to remember and pray for Pope Francis, cardinals, bishops, priests and all people worldwide so that they may resume celebrating Holy Mass as soon as possible,” he said. The cleric noted that as it was at the time of Prophet Moses, Tanzania had had an opportunity to pray for those whose worship schedules had been suspended due to the Covid-19 epidemic worldwide. “The Holy Scriptures tell us that Moses prayed for the Israelites during their war by raising his hands and they won battles, but when Moses got tired and put his hands down they were defeated. Therefore, to ensure that they won all the way, the Israelites kept large stones under Moses’ hands so that they would not go down and this enabled them to win the war,” he said. Bishop Minde added that Tanzanians, just like Prophet Moses, had an opportunity to pray for others who did not have the opportunity to do so in their houses of worship. “Let us also raise up our hands and pray to God so that he may eradicate the Covid-19 pandemic.” Rev Minde, who is also the Apostolic Administrator of the Catholic Diocese of Kahama, reminded the faithful that, just like Jesus Christ who healed a leper who had asked for help, God would also do something about the Covid-19 pandemic if Tanzanians continued relying on him. “May I take this opportunity to appeal to you to be goodwill ambassadors to those who didn’t come to Holy Mass today by raising awareness to them on Tanzanians’ privilege of continuing going to houses of worship countrywide, something which is God’s big gift to our nation,” he said. He also called on believers to pray for all those who he said fear to discharge their duties because of the Covid-19 pandemic and warned that fear had other side effects if it won’t be avoided. During Holy Mass which he presided at assisted by Christ the King’s Priest, Fr Evans Mavumilio, Bishop Minde inaugurated the recitation of a special Rosary Prayer of Divine Mercy which he said was meant to pray for the end of the Covid-19 pandemic worldwide. He explained that the recitation would be observed at all parishes throughout the Catholic Diocese of Moshi after every Holy Mass before the final blessing.