AS young women, we are exposed to societal p r e s s u r e everywhere around us, having a steady financial plan, raising kids, meeting and settling with The One someday name them. Everyone around you is talking about how much you have to hurry and get everything done by the time you are thirty. Thirty? Really? So if I began college at twenty, finish at twenty-three or four, I now have six years to get myself together? Wow. This is absurd literally! But how much easier would life be if society did not put such pressure? So what does it exactly mean to have yourself together? For some it’s an amazing career, for others it’s family. But for those of us who want both, why does society want us to choose? Woman who go to work, are labeled as not so great mothers or wife materials, and those who wait until they are more established are labeled as the ones who won’t keep a man. See, the expectation is that you’ll find your dream partner in college, land your dream job, and live your life happily ever after. But as the majority of women can tell you, that isn’t the case. An alarming number of women after college aren’t even working in their fields. You want to move up, gain more responsibilities, and really make a name for yourself in your organization. Employee evaluations and promotions are coming up, and you really want to make sure you stand out. You may not have time to date as much as you would like. In your mind, it’s okay because you know what you are working towards. To others, however, that’s abnormal. I’ve been asked on numerous occasions, when I plan on getting married or having kids. Those who ask do not care where my life is headed right now, might be engaged in study, establishing a business or among many other options. A majority would go like “a bachelors is enough, Time to go settle down now”. “Oh something must be wrong with her,” they say. Why does something have to be wrong with someone? The naysays women receive from not falling in line with traditional gender roles is ridiculous. We have different priorities right? Generations before us expected women to stay at home and rely on the man for financial support, but this is a new day and age. More women are the breadwinners too. Nevertheless, it’s still possible to achieve both. Growing up, my mum would often joke, you go to college to get two degrees: ‘’your bachelor and your MRS…’’. And although we laughed, there was an edge of truth to what she said—which was typically followed by, ’’because you need someone that can support you’’. I would cringe at the statement and stay quiet for a while reminiscing on past scenarios that explained why a woman wasn’t supposed to even have the thought of studying to a higher learning institution lest she would look as not so appealing, not so of a future mother figure or ‘’the know it all’ ’kind of woman. As outdated as this ‘’a woman needs a man’’ mantra might seem, it, well, actually isn’t relevant in the society today. The ‘’secure the bag’’ cliché on the woman is still very suitable. Whether we blame the growing higher education rates and career goals for a woman or even the trend of ‘’finding yourself’’ before walking down the aisle, the truth is this, the old model of relationships is becoming out of fashion. Nevertheless, in the past our African culture and the society at large had it that a woman was the receiver and the man the sole provider of the family unlike in the current times where both could be the sole providers of the family, not in all cases but in a majority of families. Women are juggling college classes, career, friends, various development projects and so much more and sadly a lot of women may be too busy to find love or might dread surprises, the idea of settling down with a mate who’s not aligned to the path they want to follow in life or career. Cultural and societal expectations would in some time pressure you to start the search for “the one “but it’s best to do when you are mentally ready and because forever is a lot of work, seek to sail through it with the right one, with the one who brings in the peace, wipes away the chaos, whom your soul loves and who loves his mother too (see this is just too important ladies) Don’t let society tell you otherwise. Do what makes you happy, and if you want both you can have both a family, a clear outlined career path before walking the aisle and so much more.