MIRACLES have a habit of being unusual, but in which even people who believe they are too intelligent to be cheated believe. I believe that you are intelligent, and therefore don’t believe that you will believe what I am about to tell (lie to?) you. My best friend once told me something that, to this day, hour and minute, I don’t believe is true, but which, before I disclose it, I wish to confess to you that I have forgotten his name. You don’t believe that I have forgotten my best friend’s name? I am sure I have forgotten it, and you have no right to assume that I am a liar. As sure as my first name, Wilson, was also the surname of a one-time British prime minister whose first name was Harold, I am an expert at not telling lies. And hey, you should realise that as a senior citizen, my memory can’t be as well-behaved as that of a junior one who is critically starved of years. Anyway, I am donating the name Neimulesi (the corrupted version of nameless) to the friend whose actual name I forgot. He told me that in part of the world called Sukumaland (but not an independent republic), some “wife hunters” target light-complexioned women. The fathers of such women pocket higher sums of dowry. I’m reluctant to brand Neimulesi a liar, or, putting it diplomatically, a truthfulness-starved citizen. Anyway, partly thanks to globalisation (long live utandawazi), a prospective wife’s white complexion is immaterial. If anything, blackness is perceived as a jewel, and worshipping whiteness a manifestation of an attitude that bears the ugly Kiswahili concept “kasumba”. This, of course, doesn’t imply that whiteness is a curse; any prospective fiancé having the right, under both the sun and the moon, to marry a girl of any complexion. I will disclose to you a small secret free of charge, because, as opposed to my belief in God, I don’t believe in hiding secrets. Save for when I am dead asleep (but not being fully dead) my brain busies itself on exploring what’s going on around its one hundred per cent owner; meaning me. Shortly before boarding a blessed commuter bus (daladala) the other day, a shabby man who would never win a cleanliness test (an examination being out of the question) was offering the blessed service of sanitising boarding passengers. I thanked him for no service rendered, politely showing him my tiny, self-help sanitiser bottle. Once inside, I became the temporary owner of a seat that didn’t belong to the bus, but was a forgery sneaked in for the sake of crudely complying with the government’s level seat arrangement. Since I guess you are an expert at guesswork (God bless you-congrats rolled into one), you know it was a “kigoda”. Once seated, and, as hinted earlier, my brain being anti-laziness, I silently saluted daladala crew for being geniuses; not on the level of Alexander Bell the telephone inventor, but geniuses nonetheless. They have filled what would otherwise be empty corridors with, not necessarily chairs, but stools, plus, for more creative ones, upside-down empty buckets! The creativity is meant to conquer the level-seat order, as one of the government’s strategies for combating a deadly disease whose name begins with letter “C” and ends with the number “9”. I am reluctant to write the full name because, being a super coward, I fear that, by the time I would be depositing the full-stop after the second double quote after letter “9”, I would be transformed into a four-letter word, of which I am as sure you are as scared as I am. Kigoda, by the way, reminds me of Tanga Region, where that word is also the surname of some Tanga republicans. Comfortably seated on my kigoda; sorry, a daladala ‘special seat’, a package of thoughts crowded around my brain the way non-blessed hyenas crowd around a non-blessed carcass. As if tackling examination papers, the brain started focusing attention to the thoughts. Among the first ones was the suspicion that, given the dark cloud that is hovering over the one hundred plus one percent (100+1pc) cursed terrible disease that became our guest minus invitation not so long ago, young people are obviously having a hard time on matters related to marriages. Due to “mask-lized faces”, first-time potential grooms and brides miss the opportunity to assess the facial outlook of potential husbands and wives. Chances (actually non-chances) of the two by-passing one another along a street after a few days with neither recognising the other are great. What’s more, in a situation where lips, as part of mouths, are imprisoned by facemasks, two potential couples, and even subsequent husbands and wives, wouldn’t hold fruitful discussions, since they would be reduced to babies learning how to so speak! wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633