MSISI village residents in Bahi District, Dodoma Region have lauded World Vision Tanzania (WVT) initiative that provides mass education in public on coronavirus, adding that it has helped them to take precautionary measures. "After receiving education on how to protect myself, I have been taking all possible measures including my family and people surrounding me," said an elderly man, Juma Hussein in the area. On her part, Grace Msagati a Standard Seven pupil aged 14 years in the village said: "With the ongoing campaign, I have been taking every precaution including avoiding public gatherings.” According to Msisi Village Executive Officer (VEO), Flaviana Mlamula, the ongoing campaign has helped residents in the village to remain safe; pointing out that not even a single case has been reported in the area. The District Community Development Officer, Mr Denis Komba said prior to the campaign, a team of experts had been formed to assess the situation in 42 Wards of 59 villages in Bahi District. WVT in collaboration with Tanzanian government have been carrying out a project that creates awareness on how people should protect themselves in public against the scourge. The project is currently being implemented in four regions of Dodoma, Dar es Salaam, Kagera and Arusha, where the NGO rolls out the project as in other regions. Speaking in an interview with the ‘Daily News’ at the weekend, WVT Health and Nutrition Specialist in the Central Zone, Salome Mtango said in Dodoma Region, the project was being implemented in 32 villages of Bahi District. "We made an assessment after realizing that providing massive education through Public Announcement (PA) system was a little bit tricky, because many people are always in their farms with not time to get the message. “This made WVT in collaboration with officials from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children to opt for house to house campaign for families to understand and master preventive measures. "As development partners, we have a role to play in an event the country faces any pandemic… and the government requested us to help in the fight,” she pointed out. WVT is a Christian, relief, development and advocacy Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) that was started in 1981, and works with all people regardless of tribe, religion and ethnicity to help improve and sustain the well-being of families and communities. In Bahi District, a survey conducted by the ‘Daily News’ at Mundemu Ward that has 18 villages witnessed officials from the ministry, and local government leaders as well as a team of specialists from the NGO visiting houses with Covid-19 awareness. The grouped also provided them with the disease transition mode, symptoms and why one should visit a health centre once one sees the symptoms.