LIPULI FC skipper, Paul Nonga has unveiled his bid to part ways with Iringa-based side and he has already informed the club to find his replacement when new season starts. One of the most experienced hitmen, Nonga says he wants to experience new challenge elsewhere. Nonga, who has so far scored 10 goals for his side could not mention his next move after parting ways with the Iringa based club but could still be a hot cake on the market for many clubs in the country. "So far, I have received three offers from inside and one offer from outside the country. Discussions are unfolding well and it is my hope that we will reach to an agreement very soon. "What I want next season is to win titles, be competitive and above all, be able to succeed as a person so that I can manage my life and those of others well. These are some of the things which have made me not to extend my contract at Lipuli," Nonga said. He added that so far, he has no agent to take care of his transfer matters which unfold within the country saying he can singlehandedly take care if internal offers since he understand the game very well. He again pointed out that lack of consistency among Tanzania players is what usually prevent them from being marketable in both internal and external markets. "I have played for different teams in the country including Yanga but what I have observed is that there is a big difference between playing at a top club and a small club. "At Yanga, their first priority is to win titles while at these small teams, they just want to compete in the league not to be relegated such that if they happen to win the title, it becomes an option not priority," he said. About the current Covid-19 situation, Nonga said he has missed to be on the pitch playing football while hoping that the pandemic will be contained soon. Lipuli, who were promoted into the senior league in 2017 sit on 13th place on the league table with 33 points from 29 games and are not yet safe as far as avoiding relegation is concerned hence they need to win their upcoming remaining games to be assured of their survival next season.