CHIEF Justice Ibrahim Juma yesterday led Tanzanians in paying last respects to the fallen retired Chief Justice Augustino Ramadhan at an emotional ceremony held in Dar es Salaam. Current and retired senior government officials and officers of the court were among mourners who attended a historic ceremony at Karimjee grounds in the city as millions followed the event via television. Speaking during the event, CJ Juma said Judge Ramadhan was diligent and loved his work to the extent that every institution wished to work with him. "He served at the appellate court for 21 years; few court officials get such an opportunity, in those years he grew in knowledge, experience and vision," he noted. He further said that Justice Ramadhan stressed on the public to study various judgments so as to enrich knowledge. "So we will appreciate Judge Ramadhan if we will read more judgements and understand them and discuss them in detail," Justice Juma said, appreciating the contribution of the deceased in computerization of the judiciary which he proposed 10 years ago. Due to coronavirus, the court now implements his idea, whereby they use video conferencing to conduct court sessions. The death of the retired CJ has touched many people across the continent and President of the Arusha based African Court on Human and Peoples Rights (AfCHPR), Justice Sylvain Oré being one of them. Justice Oré said the departed Ramadhan meant a lot to AfCHPR. Hard work, humility, simplicity and humour just to cite a few, were among his attributes, he was able to combine all these values with leadership, he said. Justice Ore further said that he learnt a lot from him, whereby he demonstrated leadership, dedication and mentoring abilities to many. He described the late Ramadhan as a rare personality who had a combination of army general and CJ. "He was like a father, peacemaker and advisor," he added. Among the few dignitaries who attended the event included former presidents Jakaya Kikwete and Benjamin Mkapa, former Chief Justices Athuman Chande and B arnabas Samatta and former chairman of the National Electoral Commission (NEC), Justice Damian Lubuva. The retired CJ died at Aga khan hospital on Tuesday, at the age of 75, after a long illness. He had a varied and distinguished CV . In addition to being a retired CJ, he was a Brigadier General in the Tanzania People's Defence Forces and was an Anglican priest and President of the AfCHPR.