AS you would walk at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) commonly called Mlimani being the country’s fountain of merit, don’t be surprised to meet a young Chinese lady, Ms Li Guaiqiong, in the population of students, who is taking her Phd studies on International Relations that culminated into a chat with Woman Magazine Reporter, and the following transpired. Qn :As a woman, what motivated you to study the subjects? Ans:To be honest, as a child coming from an ordinary peasant family, my parents told me that education was the only way that would change my life. Later, when I finished my college education, the knowledge I acquired enriched my original cognition, and I began to realise that maybe I could use my knowledge to make difference to others’ lives. For me, studying is about getting a way to understand the world better, and to explain what has happened in the history, and infer what is going to happen in the future. The subjects I chose to study have nothing to do with my gender, because any subject, which leads to a profession or occupation in the world, should not be considered based on gender. Q:What’s your future plan with the study in relation to being a lady, who expects to have a family? A:I don't have specific plans to study as a lady and have a family. To me, the day I will get ready to have my children will be the day I will be ready to have a family. I do think raising kids will be the most important thing for my family. So I shall get much more knowledge about marriage and raising kids. I also get this kind of knowledge from my friends, who already have families or from my parents. Most Chinese girls learn how to deal with family issue from our parents, hence my future plan is to have three kids if i can afford it, otherwise, I will just have two. Q: What are your hobbies and dislikes in life? A:I like sports and I keep trying different kinds of sports: American football, Cricket, Wrestling, Boxing. The core purpose of exercise is to have a healthy body, it will make the exercise more interesting by giving different forms. Life lies in movement, Exercise can help me with a healthy body and mind, strong body, strong will. I don't like getting quarrels or disputes with others. Whether in a family life or working place, I prefer to do my own things quietly and if there are disagreements or opinions, let them be settled through peaceful consultation. Q:How do you find life in Tanzania (treating women) in comparison to your country? A:In China, the proportion of men and women was out of balance because of the traditional idea of favoring men over women in previous years. The proportion of male population is higher than that of female population. Therefore, under the monogamous marriage system, some Chinese men cannot find their wives. So generally speaking, the status of women has naturally been much higher than before. But still, some workplaces are in the progress of providing more chances and positions to women, many places are prefer to get male employee. Here in Tanzania, I see some government departments have provided a lot of chances and positions to women, but in social life and family life, women haven’t been given enough chances and respect. As I know, many women have kids without getting married, and they always raise the kids themselves without getting help from the father, making life to become harder for them. In China, more and more husbands are now taking on household chores, such as taking care of children, doing the laundry, cleaning the house. But in Tanzania, the tradition is that taking children, cooking and laundry issue should all be borne by women. In this case, the time for women to engage in their own careers or social life will be squeezed. Q:What advice do you hold for Tanzanian women like in your case you decided to go study outside your country? A:My advice to them is that if they want to go abroad to study or to work, no matter where one goes, one must learn and understand policies and culture of that country start with the language. Prepare yourself in advance to face some suffering moments, because you will experience a period of loneliness and a period of discomfort. Wherever you go, remember to make friends sincerely, anywhere there are some kind and motivated people, Make friends with them, when you share same value like spirit of kindness and self-motivated, it’s easy for you to be good friends. Because that kind of value identification can transcend language, race and national boundaries.  As a girl-child, how did you manage to climb education ladder in a country (China is falling in gender equality rankings and one-child policy)?  Chinese folks have a tradition of prioritising men over women, but the Chinese government and Chinese laws provide for equality between men and women. After the implementation of the one-child policy in China, the ratio between men and women is unbalanced, and the proportion of males is higher than that of females. I am a girl, a minority girl, and a minority girl from a rural village in China. My parents are ordinary peasants and I am now a PhD candidate. I hold three main reasons for me to climb the education ladder. First of all, I want to thank China’s education policy, and the government that put in place many policies to ensure that all children have the opportunity to go to school. Children in the rural areas can enjoy the education resource. The tuition and miscellaneous fees for primary and secondary schools are completely exempted, and living allowances are provided. Few students drop out because they have no money to pay tuition. Secondly, I would like to thank my parents, who abandoned the patriarchal mindset, gave me the opportunity to go to school, and supported me all the time. My parents they take boys and girls equally, and they value education a lot, I have a sister, she has graduated from university. Finally, I want to thank myself for cherishing the opportunity of studying and persevering on the road to learning knowledge and skills.      