AS the world focuses on fighting the coronavirus pandemic that has disrupted life and economy, it is wise that each and every person, regardless of race, religion and politics and location concentrates on how to tame the disease. Everyone knows that the world is facing a twofold crisis: First, the pandemic threatening to ravage several public health systems around the globe, which if individuals fail to enforce and adhere to strict social distancing to preempt would wipe all out; Second, an epidemic of information, in which anyone gets to say anything, credible or not, to advance whatever agenda. However, it negates the World H ealth Organisation (WHO) issued guidelines on how to fight the disease in public, especially when some people take to the same public for political mileage, talk politics and attack personalities under the guise of the ailment that has no boundary and does not select on whom to attack. This at the end of the day, we should all know that fake news on Social Media is not journalism, but confuses and makes the innocent public to lose track of the war against the disease. This is not the time and forum to point fingers on non-capitalist economic models, and climate change mitigations advanced by some country; here we need to share in our plight collectively as citizens of this globe. At the same time those who talk of cures for coronavirus should know that according to the WH O, there are currently no drugs licensed to treat or prevent the disease. While several drug trials are ongoing, there is currently no proof that hydroxychloroquine or any other drug can cure or prevent Covid-19, however its misuse can cause serious side effects and illness and even lead to death. Again, while several drug trials are ongoing there is no proof that hot peppers in your food, though very tasty, can prevent or cure the disease. The best way to protect yourself against the new coronavirus is to keep at least 1 metre away from others and to wash your hands frequently and thoroughly. It is also beneficial for your general health to maintain a balanced diet, stay well hydrated, exercise regularly and sleep well. At the same time, do not under any circumstance spray or introduce bleach or any other disinfectant into your body to keep off the disease. These substances can be poisonous if ingested and cause irritation and damage to your skin and eyes. Drinking alcohol does not protect you against Covid-19 and can be dangerous, because frequent or excessive