FATMA Hassan (not her real name) decided to get married as soon as she completed national form four examinations. She would not hear from anyone. The dreams of the joys of marriage were too overwhelming to her. “I just wanted to get married and enjoy life with my husband. My parents convinced me to continue with education, but I said no to them.” But, she is now regretting after the man whom she wed divorced her on unclear reasons, only seven months after their married last year. “I cannot understand why, my husband divorced me when I am preparing to give birth to our first born,” she said. When asked why he divorced, the husband of the age 25 simply replied by phone; “I am tired of her, and that is the end. Let her find another man to marry and I will too find another woman to marry.” Divorce is still a disturbing global problem with rate of marriage splits remaining high even in developed countries including the United States, contrary to expectations and views that wealthy and educated families are stable. While different researchers indicate astonishing divorce rates also in Spain, Portugal, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Belgium, Zanzibar is not exceptional with divorces cases reported daily. More than 1,000 divorce cases were recorded in various Kadhis courts here between January and December last year. Kadhi’s courts are a court system that enforces rights of inheritance, family, and succession for Muslims. The divorce statistics were recently revealed by the Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs Mr Khamis Juma Mwalim who said cases of demand for divorce were on the rise. Statistics from the gender desks, Ministry responsible for women affairs, and activists like Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA), and Zanzibar Female lawyers Association (ZAFELA) also show that family conflicts leading to divorce are many. The ongoing debate here is how to curb the rising number divorces and separations which lead instabilities in families affecting children upbringing. “Efforts must be done to minimize divorces, because they lead to family and children abandonment,” said a legislator for Konde constituency in Pemba, Omar Seif Abeid at a House of Representative session last week. He joined other backbenchers to express concern about the soaring rate of divorces in the Islands. Many argue that divorce is a consequence of frustration, annoyance, anxiety, failure to manage family, moral decay, political division, ‘young age,’ lack of tolerance in marriage, domestic violence, and unnecessary hatred within the family and also jealousy in relationships. In 2015 general elections, women, who voted contrary to their husband’s choices of candidate or defied orders not to go and vote, were divorced as confirmed by Z AFELA and Kadhis courts where some women went to complain, and asked for re-marriage. Analysts say that these are common driving forces that are producing conflicts in marriages leading to unstable family and break-up, and that the situation is moving towards becoming the worst. Some researchers also suggest that many divorces go-unreported because of ignorance or embarrassment to reveal family conflict, and that in both rural areas and urban the problems may be higher than it is reported. Looking at the age of the most affected marriages or which eventually result in divorce, young people take the lead and that after luxurious wedding, marriage last only for short time, some less than a month. It is fortunate that many youth (mainly in 20s and 30s) are getting married to avoid unprotected sex outside wedding, but the demographic groups have the highest divorce rate of more than 50 percent. Some people and legislators suggest that people, particularly youth, planning to get married should be given enough knowledge and helped to understand marriage affairs before wedding. “Concerted efforts are required to end divorce because its impact on the society is big. Children with separated parents are more at risk of being abused including defilement and rape,” members of the backbenchers led by Mr Hamza Hassan Juma said. They asked religious bodies, mainly the majority Muslims, like Mufti Office to educate the youth about marriage, and having a better family after wedding, to have a stable society. Already Muftis office has been working with the Imams (Muslim clerics) association known as JUMAZA to conduct classes for people in marriage and those planning to get married so that they live and remain in marriage longer. Sheikh Muhhydin Z ubeir says the marriage classes are expected to reduce divorce. Sheikh Fadhil Soraga, a renowned Muslim cleric said “it is high time we got committed to educate the public through media to send the message around that divorce is not good, even though it is allowed in Islamic religion.” He said they have also taken onboard reenergized campaign against all sort of abuse against children and women, which include sexual abuse, beating, abduction, and abandonment of children. In support of the efforts to minimize divorce in the Islands, some activists have embarked on a campaign to raise awareness on tolerance in families, and men to understand the right to have freedom in marriage including in political decisions. Dr Mzuri Issa- director, TAMWA-Zanzibar, says “divorce is now a problem in our society, we have to join forces to ensure people in marriage live peacefully to avoid unnecessary split.” Sociologists argue further that marital instability and family structure are critical issues in this world, as divorce comes with dire consequences for the health and education of children who needs proper care. Due to the financial responsibilities which he has to bear, the right to divorce in Islam is primarily given to the husband. A Muslim who wishes to divorce his wife is therefore advised in the first instance to ask for an arbitration meeting, arranged by elders of the couple so that reconciliation may be reached. If such efforts fail and the man sincerely thinks he cannot live in harmony with his wife, he may divorce her either verbally or in writing. In both cases, it is recommended for there to be two witnesses present on the occasion of the pronouncement of such a divorce. After a divorce is pronounced by a husband, the wife must wait for a given period (‘iddat’), and during this period she is allowed to stay in the same house but they cannot sleep together.