SIXTEEN Village Executive Officers (VEOs), from Hai District Council in Kilimanjaro Region have lost the bid challenging termination of their employment services and seizure of their salaries for lack of Form Four education or qualification and certificates. This followed a decision by the High Court’s Labor Division to nullify and quash the Award of the Commission for Mediation and Arbitration (CMA) given in favor of the officers, the respondents, after granting an application for revision lodged by the Council, the applicant. Judge Suzan Bernard Mkapa ruled that the CMA lacked jurisdiction to entertain the labor dispute lodged by the respondents, who were public servants, before their employment services were brought to an end. She said that the Public Service Act is the principal legislation governing all public servants. The judge further pointed out on the other hand that the Employment Labour Relations Act (ELRA) is the law which generally governs employment, including employees' relations. “Since there is a specific law governing public servants, I am of the settled view that ELRA cannot apply in the instant case since the amended section 32A and section 60 of the Public Servants Act, categorically requires that; an aggrieved public servant is to appeal to the Public Service (Commission),” she said. The judge went on explaining that if the employee is dissatisfied with the decision by the Public Service Commission, he or she may refer the matter to the President of the United Republic of Tanzania for further determination on appeal before resorting to court action. According to her, a public servant shall, prior to seeking remedies provided for in labour laws; he or she has to exhaust all remedies as provided for under the Act. She observed that the remedies available under the law were never exhausted by the respondents. “Since the Commission had no jurisdiction to entertain the dispute, this fact dispose of the whole application. I hereby nullify and quash the Commission's Award and parties are advised to follow the proper procedures provided for under the Public Servant Act together with its regulations,” she said. Facts show that the respondents are Village Executive Officers who were terminated and their salaries seized from July 2017 for lack of Form Four education or qualification and Certificates due to a Circular issued by Permanent Secretary (Establishment). It is alleged that the said circular targeted employees employed after May 20, 2004 and since the respondents were employed before that date, they considered their termination unfair and referred their matter to the Commission which ruled in their favor. Before the CMA, the respondents had requested for orders that the decision to suspend salary and termination of employment be nullified and set aside and they should be reinstated into their employment service with effect from July 10, 2017. The respondents sought for orders to be paid their monthly salaries from July 20I7 until the day of reinstatement and that their salaries was totaling 58, 250, 500/-, and the claims relating to leave, transfer, acting allowance, salary arrears and increments should be worked upon while they are at work. Furthermore, they requested that the order to reinstate and pay them be made with immediate effect and enforced within one month, and unreasonable delay will be penalized by payment of 20 percent monthly basis and cost of the case The applicant was aggrieved by the decision and decided to file the revision in question on grounds that the Arbitrator erred in holding that the schedule to employment contract of respondents is the contract itself and neglected the real contract of employment signed by them. He stated that the Arbitrator erred in law and in fact in entertaining employment dispute of Public Servants while having no jurisdiction to do so as the local remedies after the employees’ termination had not yet been exhausted. The applicant stated also that the Arbitrator erred in law and in fact in awarding the respondents by deciding the matter in favour of the respondents without taking into consideration orders provided in the Permanent Secretary (Establishment) circular of which he quoted to have been referred. In addition, the applicant stated that the Arbitrator erred in law and in fact in awarding the respondents an award without taking into consideration the testimony of the witness and evidences tendered thereon.