THE anti-Covid- 19 battle has not left behind special groups, as the Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) donated preventive gears to blind people. The authority handed over the donation to the Tanzania Association of Blind People yesterday, to enable them be on their guard. The donated items included sanitisers, face masks and hand washing facilities. Handing over the facilities to the leaders of the association, OSHA Acting Executive Director Hadija Mwenda, said being a public institution with a mandate to ensure safety at work places, OSHA was concerned with the big challenge facing the special group in coping with the health challenge. “We are all aware that the world at large and our country are battling Covid-19, and that every individual is dutybound to take precautionary measures against the disease. Since we realise the challenges facing blind people, we have deemed it appropriate to donate the vital items to them,” Ms Mwenda said. Ms Mwenda pointed out that blind people had a more difficult time in taking preventive measures. “Given their situation, they come in body contacts with other people, especially when they need assistance for crossing roads; so, the sanitisers we have donated will help them sanitise their hands after touching other people,” she said. Ms Mwenda appealed to other stakeholders to help the special groups so that they also guard themselves against infection, and participate in the country’s development activities. The association’s youth coordinator, Mr Omari Itambu, thanked the OSHA for the support, saying the donation would help members of the association immensely. “First of all, we are very thankful to the President John Magufuli for calming us down over the disease and encourage us to continue working hard. We thank the OSHA for this support in fighting the disease...the OSHA was one of institutions that we had requested for help,” he said. On his part, chairman of the association for Dar es Salaam, Mr Paul Zumba, thanked the OSHA for the donation which would help protect them against Covid-19 infection, calling upon other stakeholders to do the same.