TANZANIA is not only suffering from Covid-19. The country is also suffering from heavy rains. This has led to the sweeping away of bridges over many rivers making roads impassable, and to floods in many areas. The latter include Hai District in Kilimanjaro Region which, of late, has been hit by floods, as can be gauged from a news item in the Custodian (April 27, p. 11). In the article’s opening paragraph, the writer informs us as follows: “Over 50 ‘households’ have been swept away by flash floods in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Region, following heavy rains over the past two days”. The definition of a household has been debated by social scientists over a number of years. According to authoritative sources, “a household consists of one or more people who live in the same dwelling and share meals. The household is the basic unit of analysis in many social, microeconomic and government development models and is important to economics and inheritance”. Thus, when we talk of a household, we are referring to people. The average household size in Tanzania is 4.9 people. If 50 households are swept away by floods, in a span of two days, then we are talking of 245 people adversely affected, possibly dead. That is a huge number and surely it is not what the writer had in mind. It was not households that were swept away. It was houses. These 50 houses may have contained more than 50 households, especially if they (houses) were fully or partially rented out. The authorities in Hai District quickly responded to the flooding, as the writer continues to inform us: “District Commissioner LoS, ordered six households which have large number of children to be ‘temporaliry’ relocated to Sanya station primary school building in KIA ward”. Temporaliry? Not at all. This is a case of mixing up “r” and “l” which many of us do. The word “temporary” is an adjective, meaning, “existing, done or used for only a limited period of time”. It is from “temporary” (the adjective) that we have “temporarily”, the adverb. So the six households with a large number of children were to be “temporarily” housed at Sanya Station Primary School. This means they will be there for a limited period of time, and move elsewhere or back to their houses once the floods have subsided. The words “temporary and temporarily” should be distinguished from the words “temporal, temporally” which refer to matters related to time, or to worldly matters (as opposed from religious matters). The District Commissioner is reported to have said further: “We’re also working ‘on ensure’ that they get the basic necessities”; pointing out that “most of the affected ‘families are those built’ along valleys, which in most cases are prone to floods”. Clearly, what the writer had in mind was to tell us that the DC was working (hard) ‘to” (not ‘on’) ensure that (the flood victims) get basic necessities”. How about this view that most of the affected families are those ‘built’ along valleys? Like in the case of households, by families, we mean people. People do not get built along flood prone valleys. The houses in which they live may be built in such areas. This calls for the re-writing of the sentences into something along these lines: “most of the affected ‘families are those whose houses are built’ along valleys, which in most cases are prone to floods”. Finally, the writer points to the fate of a number of flood victims: “Some families have deserted their homes and sought ‘shelters to nearby villages””. A re-write would be: “Some families have deserted their homes and sought ‘shelter in nearby villages””. We say thank you to all those working hard to alleviate the suffering of flood victims in Hai and elsewhere. Ramadan Kareem to all of you. RIP Ambassador Augustine Mahinga. lusuggakironde@gmail.com