ZONAL Darts 2020 tournament which was earlier scheduled for a shoot-out in Dodoma this May has been postponed. The organizers, Tanzania Darts Association (TADA), said yesterday that the Covid-19 crisis has forced them to postpone the event which was to be played under singles discipline. All sports activities have been suspended since mid-March this year as preventive measures against the spread of coronavirus. However, there was a relief early this week when President John Magufuli had hinted of raising curtains to some events such as Premier League.  TADA had planned to stage the Zonal Tournament Singles Finals on May 8th drawing both men and women from various regions in the country. “The Zonal Darts Finals were supposed to be held in Dodoma, but that was in case the 30-day suspension of all sports activities and gatherings were to be lifted. TADA Secretary General, Victor Kimambo said they expected  the suspension would have ended in late April, but it didn’t. The TADA officials were apparently waiting for the government directives on whether they should be resuming public activities, such as sports. In that finals, TADA was to foot meal, accommodation and return transport for all 62 players from who were to participate in the event in Dodoma. Five zones, were to be participating in the Darts Finals, they are Northern (12 players); Southern Highlands (Five players); Central (Nine Players); Coastal (14 players) and Lake Zone (11 players). Eleven officials were also expected to travel to Dodoma for the event. The zonal tourney was also to pick the best players who will form the national darts team that will represent the country in the forthcoming East African Darts Championship to be held here in June. According to the TADA officials, Darts players can always practice in isolation without mixing with others: “With darts one can have an own board and practice at home in isolation, and even during playing it is possible to make participants keep safe distance from each other,” he added.