ONE thing that we may all have to work on, and as soon as possible, is in the realm of sports instructors. We need to train sports instructors, and as many as we can, if we really want to compete with the best in the world. For a long time, I have been writing on the importance for our soccer clubs to establish soccer academies. But very few clubs have done that, many have continued to stick to the old style and system of getting their soccer players through those produced, haphazardly, through the streets of our urban centres. And you cannot blame them for obvious reasons. Indeed, how can you blame them when they don’t have the right crop of instructors who can work on the children? The beauty of training as many sports instructors as possible is that we could in the end turn even our nursery and primary schools into semisoccer academies. Our schools, especially the privately owned, so called English medium schools could also transform their institutions into semi-soccer academies. But proprietors of such schools could only do that as long as there is a galore of soccer instructors, specifically tailored to train children. I’m saying specifically tailored to train children because soccer academies cannot be handled by any soccer coach. This is because the needs of such soccer academies are quite different from the needs of adult soccer players. Soccer instructors for soccer academies are specifically trained or tailored to handle children from training to the kind of food they are supposed to eat. Because of the high demand, in terms of infrastructure, training equipment and running cost of soccer academies, it would be easier and cheaper for Tanzania to partly transform their primary schools into soccer academies. Such schools could also recruit sports instructors, who are also schooled in training, but specifically children. Therefore, instead of spending may hours of training that proper soccer academy require, our primary schools could only spend an hour or two in soccer, but under the tutelage of a well, trained sports instructor. And, because sports instructors in such primary schools would concentrate, in their training, on basic football; it would be easier for our soccer players to catch up, later, whenever they are exposed to top flight foreign soccer coaches. Therefore, going forward, it is important for whichever institution which has adequate money to invest in training sports instructors who could be deployed in our nursery and primary schools for teaching not only soccer but also other sports disciplines and from their tender age. You can imagine what Tanzania could gain if between 100 and 500 primary schools in the country were provided with well, trained sports instructors to guide children in such schools in learning basic soccer that is so critical for any well, established soccer academy. The provision of as many sports instructors as possible to as many primary schools in the country as possible, would easily lead to the production of hundreds of thousands of children, who are well trained in soccer basics. Once we get to that level, we would have succeeded in replacing street trained soccer players with soccer academy trained players who would, unlike our present crop of soccer players, be more trainable. Training of sports instructors would not only work on the development of soccer players, but also in other sports disciplines that includes, among others, swimming, athletics, boxing, martial arts and all ball games. Training of sports instructors would thus ensure massive development of all sports disciplines in the country; hence empower Tanzania in most sports disciplines. We therefore need to start thinking hard over training of sports instructors at home and abroad. For a start, we need to get a couple of well, qualified young men and women to best training institutes for sports instructors who could later be posted in all our teachers training colleges. After a few years, the nucleus of well, trained sports instructors would have produced, through our teacher training colleges, local sports instructors who could be employed not only by schools, but also our soccer clubs. But the government, through the ministry of information, culture, youth and sports need to take a lead in this through coordination with the ministry of education in sports instructors abroad. Indeed, given the kind of leadership the ministry which is also responsible for sports has, I’m strongly convinced that they have what it takes to provide leadership in what I have suggested. They only need to get us just ten, very good youths for training as sports instructors in the best sports training colleges abroad in order to get us moving from a sports Cinderella to the most competitive sporting nation in the world. It can be done if everyone plays his or her part. Stay safe, stay home, keep corona virus pandemic away. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@ yahoo.co.uk