BOTTOM-placed Singida United reiterated that they will not be relegated this season insisting that they have potential to win all their remaining Mainland Premier League matches when it resumes. The Singida-based side have had a bumpy ride in the league this season no wonder they are a team which seem to be heading in the relegation jaws at the end of the season. But, speaking yesterday, the club's Director Festo Sanga said there is no way his side will farewell the league next term saying when the action gets back, they can get 40+ points to stay put for the next season. "Many people are thinking that we are likely going to be relegated but that will not happen. I believe in the team we have so far and I am sure to remain next term," he said.  However, in his past interview, Sanga said looking at the teams they will face when the league resumes, he believes that they can win all the matches and reach 42 points which is enough to keep them in the contest next season. "If you are talking about Singida United be relegated next season, even players themselves will be surprised by such comments because we are here to stay. "To achieve that, we need to cooperate as a club and since most of our players are the ones with big names in the country, they will not accept to be relegated but rather to play lungs out in all our remaining fixtures," Sanga insisted. Furthermore, Sanga pointed out that the outbreak of Covid-19 has had a big impact on them saying when the league was suspended; the team had already picked up good rhythm. "Before the league was halted, we won 2-1 against Mbeya City and that was our turning point. We will continue from where we stopped," he remarked. Since being promoted into the senior league in 2017, Singida United have never been relegated hence they have a big puzzle to lift themselves up from the jaws of the relegation. They remain at the bottom of the 20-team table with 15 points from 29 matches and have won few games (3) than any other team on the table. Again, Singida United have lost 20 encounters more than any other side in the contest, posting six draws and scoring 16 goals and conceding 49 goals respectively. Other teams which need to battle hard to survive next season are Mbao FC who sit 19th on the table with 23 points, Alliance are 18th on the log with 29 points while Mbeya City accommodate 17th slot with 30 points respectively.