INFORMATION department in clubs has been described as one of the important areas which contribute to the income generation capable to help in the smooth running of clubs. This was said recently by Mtibwa Sugar Information Officer Thobias Kifaru, who insisted that a club which has a competitive information officer is able to generate extra revenue from the fans. “A good information officer of the club is the one who has convincing power to make people leave their homes and flock to the stadiums to watch games live. “I have much respect for Simba’s Information Officer Haji Manara and Ruvu Shooting’s Masau Bwire, who possess such powers to make their supporters believe that their team will do well in a particular match hence they come to the stadium to watch the game." Kifaru then showered much praise on Manara, saying his enticing abilities enables many Simba fans to watch their games unfolding live at the stadium a quality he said is key for club Information Officers to have. He again pointed out that to be club spokesperson is not that easy as many people think since they carry the flagship of the team wherever they go as such, they need to uphold their reputation all the time. “At Mtibwa Sugar, we are lucky because we do not entirely depend on gate collections to run the club activities and we have potential to make a strong budget for the whole season without being stuck. “For those clubs which do not have strong financial base and rely a lot on gate collections must surely employ information officers, who have convincing power to attract many fans to the stadium,” he narrated. Also, Young Africans Fans Engagement Officer Antonio Nugaz insisted that the information department has a big role to play at a club. “Our supporters need to have day to day update about the trend of their team that is why club spokespersons are supposed to be alert all the time supplying information, which will make fans happy wherever they are,” he said. He also disclosed that Yanga’s seriousness in benefiting from their information department will be seen when the club will start transmission procedures shortly.