Nice Catering Company Limited has denied allegations raised recently that it refused to pay staff salaries and remit social security contributions. Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Christian Sonelo told this paper over the in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that, despite the truth that only one person out of three who raised the allegations was the company’s staff sometimes back, but the company owes no one. He named a man as Mr Jumanne Maguzo who was the company’s staff, stationed at Somanga area in Mtwara Region, where the company had food supply contract with Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC). “Our contract with TPDC ended up in October last year where we stationed Mr Maguzo at United Nations Development Programme offices, here in Dar es Salaam, but never reported to work since then,” said the CEO while showing up the list of staffs whose contributions have already been submitted to the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). According to him, Mr Maguzo’s one year contracted was supposed to expire June this year, but he ran away in October last year with no any information to his employer. The document with NSSF seal that made available to this paper, showed the submission of 25m/-, the staffs’ social security contributions for November and December of last year. He stressed that the allegations were business-oriented envy, as competitors have been used to seek means of dirtying his company whenever tender advertisements season approaches. “We experienced this situation for three years consecutively, and during this tender advertisements period. It is now the time to go for legal measures, our tolerance is over,” he said. Commenting on salary payments’ allegations, the Company’s Human Resource Manager (HRM), Mr Jacksson Charles said that it is only Bank statements which can tell the truth. He said that all salaries have been issued and paid through NMB Bank, calling up any relevant authority dealing with workers’ rights to visit the bank in order to get the truth. The HRM stressed that only Mr Maguzo was the Company’s staff, whose dues, be it social security contribution or salaries have already been offered. “Only three things, which are work contract, Bank statement and Bank slip can identify the person as an employee of certain company. Let those who claimed to be our staffs to show or submit at-least one of these identification documents,” he said.