MTIBWA Sugar yesterday brushed aside rumours that they are ready to release midfielder Abdulhalim Humud, saying he is still a key member of the squad. The player has on many occasions been linked to Young Africans. Humud frequently comments positively about the club and wear the team’s jersey a thing which made people strongly believe that he might be heading to the Jangwani based club next season. However, Mtibwa Sugar Information Officer Thobias Kifaru insisted that Humud is going nowhere because he is a key member of the Manungu based squad. “If he will leave the club, then his destination will be outside the country. At the moment, we are in the process to extend contracts of our players whose deals are nearing completion and others have long contracts which stretch up to 2022. “We have managed to rebuild Humud until he has reached at his top level hence we are not letting him go at this period and if that is the case, then his next club will be outside the country to fly high our name and the national flag,” Kifaru said. He added that Mtibwa Sugar is the only club in the country with better management system especially when it comes to youth development programmes. “We have 30 players, who form the U-17 category, 30 players for U-20 age group and 30 players who trade in the Mainland Premier League, meaning that we take good care of more than one hundred players at one center, which is not achieved by any other club in the country,” he said. Recently, Mtibwa Sugar disclosed that they have started to offer long deals to their players as one way to prevent them from easily being hijacked by big clubs in the country. “Without doubt, Mtibwa Sugar is the top university in the country as far as grooming young football talents is concerned since we invest a lot in youth development than any other club in the country." He added that they have also realised that some clubs fail to use well players who are signed from Mtibwa Sugar, a thing he said lead such players to start requesting to rejoin the Morogoro based side. “As a club, we benefit from selling players but for now, those who are being targeted by big clubs in the country have extended their contracts but the doors are wide open for any club willing to sign players here,” he narrated.