YOUNG Africans player Haruna Niyonzima said they are still Mainland Premier League title contenders despite their traditional rivals Simba creating a big-point gap at the summit of the table. Yanga, who sit third on the log, trail Simba with 20 points to make the former’s title chase a difficult puzzle to solve logically, though, mathematically, they can win the championship depending on the results to be stamped during their remaining matches upon the resumption of the top flight league. But, speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Niyonzima insisted that anything in this world is possible hence winning the silverware at the end of the season is also achievable. “To win the title is possible even though Simba have left us with such a big point- gap. As a club, we have our plans to either win the title or end it on the second place. “If we fail to achieve the desired targets, then we need to win the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) to get the ticket of playing in CAF Confederations CUP next season,” he said. About his preparation ahead of the top flight league’s resumption, Niyonzima said he is training hard every day so as to be in a good shape when the league re-starts. “We know that we will be compelled to use much energy to finish the remaining league matches within a short period. In such a situation, it means we will also have short time to prepare for the next season, which in my opinion, will see the beginning of the upcoming season to be difficult,” he said. Furthermore, the Rwandan international who re-joined Yanga during the mini- transfer window, reiterated that he is well prepared to help his club achieve more things “Football is my profession and I play to manage my own life that is why I respect both my profession and club a lot,” he said. Since landing at the club, Niyonzima has managed to form a playing pattern with his colleague Bernard Morrison and the two have been a driving force of the oldest club in the country. Yanga who last won the league title in 2016 have garnered 51 points from 27 matches and remain glued to the third place on the log. They are three points behind the second placed Azam FC who have pocketed 54 points in their 28 clashes. The club is now focusing a lot to go into transformation which will seem them attracting investors to manage the day to day running of the club.