SINCE Covid-19 begun to baffle the world, in my country and Africa at large, there has been, and actually continues to be, a lot of questions and enquiries on how stakeholders should handle this pandemic, or whether we are doing what is required in terms of better preparation, fighting back and recovering stronger. It has been really tough for many. That said however, two key questions, at least for this piece today, are of interest to me. First, should faith and religion, at this time, have a role in public square and life? Secondly, what kind of role should it have. These questions are important and cannot be flouted. It is during this time when my reader might have noticed that citizens, policymakers, and governments and faith leaders have been, in one way or the other, tempted to only look inward and forget who is around them and how best they can work together under the umbrella I call faithful citizenship. On my side, it sounds as if not many among these key players look forward to strengthening shared learning, collective advocacy, and partnership with each other in the coming days. I stand to be corrected though. Back to my two questions: should faith and religion have a role in public square and life during Covid-19? What kind of role should it have? Well, it can obviously be challenging and difficult to understand, to realize and comprehend the place of religion in this. But religion is factual, real and accurate. Covid-19 is not only a political, economic or scientific issue, but faith and religious too. In fact, science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind, said Albert Einstein, a German-born theoretical physicist, one of the two pillars of modern physics. Sadly, a number of commentators appear rather pessimistic and are clearly indicating that there is no need to involve them, suggesting that faith communities have no or limited input in the fight against coronavirus. To say prayers are irrelevant to Covid-19 is immoral. Quite clearly, these critics or analysts are making serious mistakes which will have a huge impact now and after the war. This is not the time to forget faith communities’ centuries of global unique contributions in crisis like corona pandemic. In fact even though they work from different points of departure, that is, faith as opposed to civil action, their ideas, leaders, institutions and communities should never be a missing link in much of the public conversation about this pandemic. This is not as it should be. Indeed, it is risky to do away with faith communities and religious institutions in the public square. More importantly to do so now during this unprecedented time impacted by Covid-19, when public faith is very much needed. I use the word ‘needed’ because what we are experiencing now is, by and large, feelings of disorientation and rootlessness in many societies where public hope looks as if it has been lost. I listen to people across the board, people from a wide spectrum of knowledge and expertise pigeon-holed in situations of despair and depression. What I hear and can openly make proposal out of is nothing else but people living where public love in public solidarity and compassion are, put it simply, absent. I can sense that faith is now, more than ever before, a desired value. On one hand because it has, for ages, been active in directing and inspiring transformational visions and strategies, and on the other hand, this faith value has long been known to play a profound role in the construction of our national identity and social interaction and the fact that the country consists of people, including our leaders, with religious and spiritual beliefs, which is key to understanding this reality. Delighted as it were, the importance of religion and faith on the continent is one of the key African cultural assets, affirmed by the African Union which suggests that it makes the continent and individual countries rich and strong in terms of its diversity in them. No wonder the African Union Agenda 2063, famously known as “The Africa We Want” plan has decisively taken religion as one of the significant causes of strength for its success. But what has gone wrong? Is there a confusion as to who should do what? Do we have an undeclared clash within the anti-Covid 19 army? Are stakeholders, including faith and religious people and their institutions not sure where they fit in? Are they aware of the switch Covid has brought? Is it time for us to open each stakeholder’s heart and face the truth of current failures of each? I do not think so. I think what I call the army, all involved in the fight against Covid-19, need the value of integrity in the conduct of unified anti-corona virus operations. Each key actor should exercise authority and direction, knowing that Covid-19 has brought with it a change. Even though this swing may not necessarily change the vision and mission of each, but all stakeholders should respect one another by exercising disciplined initiative to seize opportunities and counter threats within the unprecedented situations we live in. In my view, destroying trust in religion, faith, and religious institutions could leave African countries vulnerable to many disasters. This submission applies not only to people outside religion, but speaks also of people of faith themselves, those who Clive Staples Lewis, a British writer and lay theologian was once worried about, saying, of all bad men, religious bad men are the worst. We need wise faith leaders. Those who can show that their faith and the religion they believe in is relevant. And this is important because the public square is hungry for a conviction of faith and religion which can integrate itself into any attempt to deal with the challenges facing our country, including Covid-19. In so doing, faith and faith communities can easily become part of the discussion and the solution to corona virus. This is why whenever faith communities do well, phrases like the role of religion or sometimes the role of faith based organizations have gained prominence in the discourse on various social problems. To use the words of Martin Luther, German professor of theology, composer, priest, Augustinian monk, a religion that gives nothing, costs nothing, and suffers nothing, is worth nothing. Einstein also affirms, true religion is real living; living with all one’s soul, with all one’s goodness and righteousness. Finally, even though the pandemic has also affected religious and spiritual life in innumerable ways, challenging ancient traditions and practices, this does not change their vision, and they should not be deprived of public relevance. They are still and shall continue to be, as they did many centuries past, capable of feeding into public discussion using their distinctive insights regarding human condition and wellbeing. What we need now is public solidarity and compassion. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997