MINING authorities in Mara Region have started the construction of a mining plant in Nyamongo Township to protect the lives of residents and livestock due to a tendency by small-scale miners to engage in mineral processing using toxic chemicals. Mara mining officer Nyaisara Mgaya said the move was taken after it was observed that the small-miners around the giant North-Mara gold mine often continued using toxic chemicals, including mercury as opposed to environmental conservation procedures. Citing an example he said last week 34 cattle and one sheep died from drinking water discharged from one of the gold plants at Kewanja Village and the Livestock Department directed the dead animals to be buried. "Necessary steps have been taken to deal with the problem in which the owner of the mine has been directed to stop activities henceforth and adjust the sewage system. He was also directed to compensate for negligence,” said Mr Mgaya. He said the construction of the gold plant would also coincide with running short term training to all small-scale miners in the area to have a better knowledge of chemical use during the cleaning process to avoid harm to humans and livestock. Mr Mgaya clarified that parallel to the construction of a modern mining plant a team of mineral experts and the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) took samples of water and soil to determine the safety of water sources used by residents, including Tigithe River. He said small scale-miners in the region had been directed to stop  mining due to heavy rain in the region as most of them lacked modern equipment and a wastewater treatment system in those areas. "There are a number of informal miners who have not been given permission, but carry out mining activities contrary to procedures that direct them not to carry out any production until they fulfil the conditions that manage the mining sector in the country,'' he said. According to Kewanja Village chairman Marwa Bunini, some of the small-scale miners do not abide by directives provided by the village environmental committee which wants them to first obtain environmental clearance from NEMC.