THE High Commission of Canada to Tanzania has affirmed support towards advancing gender equality and empowerment of women and girls, but said each beneficiary must be willing to fight for gender parity in the country. Ms Sandra Rossiter, the Counselor of Political, Economic and Public Affairs section at the embassy told women and children to work towards unlocking each door blocking them from realising their dreams. “There are so many ways to help a girl child to realise her dream, but basically one of the principle way to one’s failure is by failing to try,” she said during a forum organised by Children Dignity Forum (CDF), in Mpwapwa. She said “Advancing gender equality is at the heart of our international assistance. All of our development policies and programs aim to empower women, and we implement specific projects to achieve these goals.” The Counselor believes that gender equality is imperative towards the promotion and protection of their human rights, but also in speeding up economic and social development in the country. Citing her mother who had a passion to become military personnel, she faced a wave of discouragement, with many saying there are no chances for women in the army. “The time for women to just dream of certain jobs has passed,” she said, demanding for women and girls to open doors to attain their dreams. At least 22 percent of military officers are women, and a lot more women are in high ranking government positions. Mpwapwa District Administrative Secretary (RAS), Ms Sarah Komba lauded CDF’s efforts to increase public awareness, especially among the youth to be able to argue constructively and redefine their goals. CDF Project Officer, Clara Wisiko explained that the organisation is currently focusing on addressing child violence that includes early child pregnancies, forced child marriage, and FGM among other gender based violence. She said the forum supports girls with empowering knowledge, targeting in and out of school kids, providing child protection and engagement of youth and men in the promotion of child rights.