CHADEMA Chairman Freeman Mbowe’s no-show order imposed on opposition MPs is tantamount to denying wananchi right of representation in the law making body. The party’s senior member from Iringa region Mr Aidan Pugili described the move as undemocratic and a sign of political immaturity. The Opposition Party leader announced the ‘lockdown’ for Chadema lawmakers last week in response to novel coronavirus diseases outbreak. However, several opposition lawmakers boycotted the decision and attended the sessions. The MPs who declined to heed Mr Mbowe’s order including David Silinde (Momba) and Joseph Selasini (Rombo) saying it was improper to betray Tanzanians. The legislators’ decision sent shocking waves in the political stance of the country’s main opposition as the next General Election scheduled for this year nears. Speaking to reporters here yesterday, Mr Pugili, said ordering lockdown to Chadema MPs was against the will of the voters and it was improper. He said voters sent MPs to the House as their representatives, therefore boycotting activities means betraying them. “We have not sent our representatives to Parliament to boycott sessions, we want them to work and represent us accordingly,” said the Opposition Party cadre. Mr Pugili was a campaign coordinator for Iringa Urban Constituency MP, Reverend Peter Msigwa in 2010 and 2015 general elections. He said the recent order by Mr Mbowe only exposed leadership vacuum within the party and poor way of handling issues. He said there have been highest level of political immaturity since the former Secretary General, Dr Wilbroad Slaa and Party’s Deputy Chairman, Prof Abdallah Safari left the party. “The party chairman is surrounded by activists. The current party’s national committee is composed of activists who are incapable of advising him wisely,” he noted. Mr Pugili hailed Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Job Ndugai for boldly reacting against the opposition’s move to boycott the parliamentary sessions. “We are tired of all these drama, they do not attended sessions  but we meet them roaming on the streets of Dodoma and elsewhere,” he said. On President John Magufuli’s recent speech on Covid-19, Mr Pugili commended the Head of State for audacious decision on lockdown, hinting that adoption of the measure would have caused more problems to poor Tanzanians. Last Sunday President John Magufuli asked the public to remain calm as the government continued taking necessary measures to limit further spread of the deadly virus. 