YOUNG Africans leadership said it does not expect to see anybody opposing the vision of the club to embrace transformation, ahead of contract signing with Spain’s La Liga consultant tomorrow in Dar es Salaam. This was said by the club's Chairman Mshindo Msolla, who insisted that the issue of going into transformation has been there for the past ten years hence time is now to make it happen. “As you know, venturing into transformation started way back but now, we are almost there since May 30th (Saturday), we will be making a first step towards transformation by signing the highly awaited contract with La Liga. "We do not expect to see anybody who loves Yanga opposing this move because once implemented successfully, it will be the lasting solution to propel our club to prosperity. This is the opportunity for us to reach far," he said. He then reminded Yanga affiliates across the country that during his campaign, he pledged to fulfill five things which he named as restoring back unity, propelling transformation, good administration, to continue and start new projects plus building the team. "We cannot manage to build a competitive team if the second role (transformation) is ignored that is why we need maximum cooperation from all Yanga members and fans to drive our team forward and make it run in a modern way," Msolla said. On his part, the club's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli disclosed that the contract signing ceremony will be held at Serena Hotel in the city from 4:00pm. "Aside from signing the deal, Bumbuli pointed out that they will also enter into partnership with one of the biggest clubs in Spain which currently sit on top four of La Liga table," he said. The four teams at the summit of La Liga are Barcelona, Real Madrid, Sevilla and Real Sociedad. In another development, the club's doctor Sheki Mgazija said all the players who turned up for testing on Wednesday have been found negative of any disease therefore cleared to embark on training sessions. "I am happy to say that all of them are of good health and will continue to train together prior to the resumption of the league matches whose official date will be disclosed soon," he said. He added that all Covid-19 prevention measures are taken into consideration like spraying balls and other shared merchandise with sanitisers so as to make the players free from getting coronavirus. Again, Mgazija narrated that goalkeeper Ramadhan Kabwili is progressing well after he was involved in a motorbike accident recently. Yanga started minor training sessions on Tuesday afternoon at the University of Law ground in Dar es Salaam under the tutelage of Assistant Coach Boniface Mkwasa as Head Coach Luc Eymael is still stranded in Belgium due to Covid-19 lockdown. As the official date to restart the Mainland Premier League is yet to be declared, the Jangwani street club remains third on the table with 51 points after 27 games, 20 points adrift leaders Simba.