THE number of the Tuberculosis (TB) cases has dropped in the past three years from 164,000 cases in 2015 to 142,000 cases in 2018, according to the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, made the revelation here on Wednesday, pointing out that TB related deaths have gone down from 30,000 in 2015 to 22,000 in 2018. She was speaking during an event to hand over 941 microscopes worth 3.3bn/- to Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, to be supplied to six districts of Dodoma, namely Dodoma, Chamwino, Kongwa, Chemba, Kondoa and Mpwapwa. “Today I have started the exercise of handing over 941 microscopes bought by the government, thanks to the Global Fund. Seven microscopes will be handed over to Chamwino District health centres,” she said. A total of 57 microscopes were handed over to Dodoma RC to be supplied to six Dodoma districts under the National Programme to control TB and Leprosy in the country. The microscopes will be used, among other things, to carry out diagnosis in hospital’s TB and Leprosy Departments. Ms Mwalimu explained that the microscopes will be supplied to 487 new health centres, three regional referral hospitals, 69 district hospitals and 315 former health centres . On his part, Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, expressed gratitude to the government for recognizing the importance of microscopes in the health facilities, saying the medical equipments will improve health services in health facilities. “The microscopes will address the challenge of people in remote rural areas to cover long distances seeking diagnostic services for TB,” he said. Last March, the City Council of Dodoma (CCD) commended the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) for surpassing the target to reach 60 TB patients in 2019 set by city authorities. In a letter of appreciation to the hospital’s Executive Director, Dr Alphonce Chandika, the City Council noted that BMH had reached 68 TB patients, which is equivalent to 113 per cent of the implementation. “Despite the recent introduction of the service, the hospital has managed to reach more than 60 TB patients last year,” read part of the letter signed by Dr Peres Lukango on behalf of the City Council Medical Officer, Dr Gatete Mahava. Dr Lukango said this year, the City Council has set its target to reach 100 TB patients by December, 2020, saying last year, the City Council had set the target to reach 60 TB patients by last December. “I wish you success in the fight against TB disease and attaining this year’s target of 100 TB patients by December,” he said. On his part, Coordinator of TB and Leprosy at BMH, Dr Dennis Kanyika, expressed delight for the hospital being recognized, pointing out that BMH is determined to surpass this year’s target of 100 TB patients. “So far we have reached about 30 TB patients. We are optimistic that we will attain this year’s target of 100 patients,” he said. Dr Kanyika pointed out that symptoms of active TB include chronic cough, fever, night sweats and weight loss. He explained that TB is spread through the air when people who have active TB in their lungs cough, spit, speak or sneeze, and that people with latent TB do not spread the disease. As of 2018, one-quarter of the world’s population is thought to be infected with TB. New infections occur in about 1 per cent of the population each year. In 2018, there were more than 10 million cases of active TB which resulted in 1.5 million deaths. This makes it the number one cause of death from an infectious disease. More than 95 per cent of deaths occurred in developing countries and more than 50 per cent in India, China, Indonesia, Pakistan and the Philippines. The number of new cases each year has decreased since 2000. About 80 per cent of people in many Asian and African countries test positive.