FROM about two months reports different reports indicate that different recreational facilities providers around Lake Victoria in Mwanza, Musoma and Bukoba municipalities have been forced to search for alternative settings amid incurring losses after their premises were submerged by rising water levels of the largest lake in Africa. Recent history of the lake shows that the highest level of was recorded in 1965 when it stood at 1134.27 Metres above mean sea level but know that the water volume of the 68,800km² Lake has gone up past the highest levels recorded 55 years ago as it is racing above its normal standards. Meanwhile paleontologists say between 360 and 260 million years ago during Karoo Ice age, the lake zone and other parts of Africa was covered by a huge blanket of ice. Many factors caused this part of the world to experience this kind climate change, the decrease of carbon dioxide which allowed Oxygen to increase by 35% played a key role into the accumulation of ice on the Earth’s surface. Scientific researches indicate that this period was dominated by a continuation of El Nino and trade winds which affected temperatures on Pacific and Indian oceans. These climate changes led into recession of the ice sheet from many parts of the World including Africa where three million years ago volcanic activities broke walls of several lakes to form one gigantic water body. Lake Victoria which covers more than 69,484 square kilometers and surrounded by Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania which occupies 49 percent or 33,700 square kilometers of the total water body. Geological history shows that actual formation of Lake Victoria took place about 400,000 years ago when a powerful Earthquake rocked this part of Africa, this happened when volcanic activities from the East African Rift Valley created walls by an up throw of surrounding rocks which blocked all rivers which passed through and created several lakes. Some scientists believe lake Rweru on the border of Burundi and Rwanda, lake Ngono, lake Burigi and lake Ikimba in Kagera region are remnants of those which were combined to form lake Victoria. On the other hand, before 541 million years ago when the World was occupied with one super continent called Rodinia, the original lakes which later formed Victoria had one of their sources from Lake Tanganyika. Scientific researches indicate that volcanic activities on the western branch of East African Rift Valley blocked the supply when Vurunga mountain emerged and diverted the river southward. From the beginning of continental drift, volcanic activities in the East African Rift Valley are known to affect landforms on this part of the world but those days it cut relationship between the two biggest lakes in Africa. On the other hand, geological history continues to show that about 2.58 million years ago, glaciations periods left behind large bowls as results of erosions. After the ice age was over, these hallows were later turned into millions of lake found in different parts of the World including the original once which occupied the place where Victoria is found today. From about 20,000 years ago the world has witnessed a decline of ice sheets and scientists say only 10% of it is remaining in few areas such as Greenland, Antarctica and mountainous regions such Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. Scientists say due to the retreat of glaciers, from 1850 there has been about 120 meters increment on level of water in reservoirs of the world such as sea and other large bodies including lake Victoria. There are several factors but scientists believe that atmospheric composition, plate tectonic, ocean currents and astronomical cycles have their hands on the climatic changes. The position of the continent in relative to the poles has a long term effect on weather and climate of an area which also trigger the buildup or retreat of ice. Scientists say these changes on Earths orbital properties which occur on a cycle of 100,000 years also affect accumulation of ice sheet and level of water bodies including lake Victoria. The effects are born out of periodic changes on the Earth’s axis which play between 22° and 24.5° which in turn affect different seasons on the planet. Metrological and geological measurements indicate that a greater tilt of Earth’s axis results into wide variations of temperature between dry and wet seasons. The process of tilting occurs in a cycle which is completed after every 41,000 years after being trigged by a shake of the earth after every 21,700 years. These factors cause a periodic cooling of the Earth whereby the coldest part the cycle is achieved after 40,000 years, on the other hand all these affect different seasons on the planet. Drought is one of effects of these changes and scientists believed that these were the main factors which forced lake Victoria into a complete dry up about 17,300 years ago. Together with others with shallow basins, during those days lake Victoria lost all its water when the world experienced a decline on precipitation. Geological samples from its floor show that when things returned to normality, the refilling process of lake Victoria started about 14,700 years ago. With annual rate of 2,000 millimeters of rainfalls, from those days to modern days, Victoria receives more than 80 percent of its supply from direct showers. There are more than eight small rivers from Kenya pour their water into the lake but with its source in lake Rweru in the border between Rwanda and Burundi, Kagera river is the single major supplier. From more than 5.3 million years ago, as a remnant of ancient river systems which flowed around the lake zone, Kagera river is the major source of Nile river. Starting from the northern shores of lake Victoria, Nile flows more than 6,853 to empty its massive water into the Mediterranean sea after crossing Uganda, Southern Sudan, Sudan and Egypt. This shows that Nile is the single major natural outflow of lake Victoria, this make the largest lake of Africa to be the source of longest river of the World. Size of the lake Victoria and the richness of its water lured zoologists of the colonial government of Uganda to introduce Nile perch in 1963. From that time to date, these fishes have conquered the lake and become main source of protein and income for people living in Kisumu, Kisii, and Homa Bay in Kenya, Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe in Uganda, and Bukoba, Mwanza and Musoma in Tanzania. On the south western corner of lake Victoria about 150 kilometer from Mwanza lays Rubondo island with an area of 237 square kilometers join with other 11 islets to form a national park with a total area of 456.8 square kilometers. The national park harbors rare mammals, birds and reptilians which are not available in other animal’s sanctuaries in Tanzania such as Sitatunga. This is medium sized antelope found in marshy and swampy areas with tall and dense vegetation where they live and forage on new foliage, fresh grasses and different species of aquatic plants. Nzohe is the Swahili for Sitatungas which are recognized by their brown coat which brighten among females and darken to male as they grow older. The tough, shaggy, water resistant coat is minimally affected by plant materials and muddy vegetation. Females have white spots which are arranged vertically to form lines on their side but male carry long horns which carve once in their entire life. Unlike other antelopes, sitatungas have bodies which are specially adapted to move around swampy habitat, their legs are equipped with banana like hooves which enable them to stay afloat on muddy areas. Though sitatunga commonly form pairs or remain solitary, larger groups have also been observed, a study in Rubondo national park indicates that they form a herd of eight adult females, a male, four females and four juveniles. At time of danger, sitatungas are known to submerge their whole body in water leaving nose and eyes on the surface. Sitatungas bread throughout the years and during the estrous period a dominant male separate receptive female from the herd as he stays with her for not less than two days. Throughout Africa the population of these antelope is estimated to be 170,000 individuals and in Tanzania, together with Rubondo island national park Sitatungas are also available in Selous, Moyowosi and Kigosi game reserves. Other animals which are found in lake Victoria are hippopotamus, crocodiles, African fish eagle and African grey parrot which dwells mainly inside Rubondo island national park. History tells us that in 1858 British HYPERLINK “https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_explorers” \o “List of explorers” explorers John Hanning Speke and Richard Francis Burton were the first Europeans to sight the lake and named it after Queen Victoria of Britain. The Buhaya people of Kagera use the name Lweru to represent the like while the Sukuma of Mwanza and Shinyanga use the word Nyanza for lake Victoria. rstanslaus@yahoo.com