BASKETBALL coach Bahati Mgunda pointed out that country still needs foreign players and expertise so as the sport to develop to the desirable Mgunda said that while unveiling his suggestion regarding to the National Sports Council (NSC) appeal to sports fraternity to pass their recommendation on the number of foreign players eligible to feature in a Tanzanian club. Mgunda, who is stationed  at The Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete (JMK) Youths Park of Dar es Salaam  as Junior NBA Coordinator, said: "In basketball, for example, a  number of foreign players is not a big issue as  currently every team is allowed to register five players, but only two of them can make to the team at one time during the game. "Maybe it is big issue when it comes to football which is the most popular game in the country. "My suggestion is that the number should not be a problem, the most important thing is to, may be,  amend our regulations to ensure the players who get contracts fit the merits to play at our country’s top leagues," he said. Mgunda added that the inclusions of the foreign players should be looking for those who play in top leagues in their respective countries and also play certain matches at the national team level to ensure we bring talents that will add value to what we have. Adding, he said the regulation should be tough and apply to coaches too since they also must possess certain level of quality so as to be allowed to take high positions at the clubs. Mgunda stressed that being smart when it comes to rules and regulation will help to add missing qualities in our games rather than  concentrating with number of foreign players. “We should not fear, rather as a country, but  strengthen our development programmes and  put in place strong foundation that will rediscover talents, promote and develop players to the high levels. Local talents should be given priority to develop and players who are given chances, have to be ready to showcase skills and consistent with their performance. Speaking about NSC measure to increase development funds, Mgunda said it will be better to look to other areas rather than basing on members, activities, foreign teams, experts, organisations and sports agencies fee. "Sports agencies, talents scouting personnel's and foreign teams or sports experts are most important too in the development agenda. He said that to demand fee for them as we need them to bring needed international experiences might not sound right. "My suggestion is that it is better to insist on seeking official permission from NSC if one wants to host a foreign team or event. Sports organisation or academies are one which should pay commitment fee after registering and could be annual." He also noted that opening the door for visitors have many impact for the country in several economic perspective include Home Affairs Ministry through paid visa to migration, hotels and other business during their stay. "The world has changed drastically that nowadays even clubs and associations do not rely on members fee any more, they look for other sources of income."