I HAVE three daughters, and I have made it a habit of being curious to know their dreams, and what they yearn to become when finally they become independent. One of them, the last born, has made it clear that she wants to work with a major airline, cutting across skies and hopping from one country to another as an air hostess. I came to realise later that most young girls dream of the same dream, but unfortunately in most cases only a handful manage to see it through, living their dreams. Wazira Guled is one of the young Tanzanian woman who harbored such dreams, of trotting the globe in a major airline, Emirates. Born in Arusha Region in Tanzania, Ms Guled studied in Kenya for both her primary and higher education, and later attained a Diploma in Travel and Tourism, a Diploma in Business Management and a University Diploma in Aviation Security Management. “Before joining Emirates, I worked at a shipping company in Dubai. One day, a colleague was visited by a friend who was a cabin crew with Emirates, during conversation, he mentioned that Emirates had cabin crew vacancies, so I applied,” she says. She remembers that after two weeks, she received a call for an interview, and says that she still remembers the assessment day, where they were in a batch with 10 other candidates. “Of course I was jittery and nervous, because I was the only one without previous experience with an airline, but I told myself that I will give it my best shot, which eventually paid off, as I got the call to join the team,” she says. Currently Ms Guled works as a Purser with the Emirates airlines, and she confesses that so far the experience is amazing, because it is where she developed herself and her skills through training and development provided by the company. The opportunity to rub shoulders with people from diverse cultures from different parts of the world has opened her scope, which she says comes with working for a multicultural and global company for almost 20 years, seeing the growth of the airline in the process. She says that adjusting to the time difference was a major challenge in the beginning, but with time, she became used to it. “For example, when you have a night flight which would be between 12am – 4am, we need to ensure we are getting our rest in the afternoon or early evening, which can sometimes be challenging with kids, so I make sure I spend time with them and get my rest before a late flight,” she says. This, she says, brings other challenges in her social life, where she says that because cabin crews always travel to different destinations across the globe, they can sometimes miss major holidays such as Eid or Christmas, so some of them try to synchronize time off with vacation days in order to plan for family holidays. Married with three children, Sheikha 10 years old and twins Jamal and Aliyah who are six years old, she says that she tries as much as possible to set aside quality family time.  “Technology is a big factor, which is why when I am flying I can still manage to stay in touch with my family, and in this way I am always aware of what they are learning in school and their wellbeing,” she says. It is a well-known secret that to qualify for a cabin crew position with most airlines, several factors come into play, and appearance is one of them, and Ms Guled says that she was no exception. “I make sure my skin is always being taken of, that is why I use a lot of homemade facial masks to help detoxify my skin. I always create a mix of low fat milk, honey and oats which I use as a face scrub, and a mask which consists of chickpeas powder, turmeric and yoghurt. I have always taken good care of my skin, so I only focus on the care it needs,” she says. In terms of food, she says that she always ensures that she consumes a good balance of protein and greens, saying that salads are quite common while berries are great antioxidants. Emirates, just like majority of airlines, has been grounded following the emergence of Coronavirus, which means that employees are forced to stay at home and wait for the situation to improve, which means that Ms Guled now has plenty of time in her hands to spend with her family. “We created a time table that helps us follow a routine and maintain discipline while we stay at home. I create one for myself and the kids, as they are going through home schooling at the moment. We start our morning at 6:15am with family exercise, followed by breakfast. Then my husband and I prepare the children’s online school lessons, which end at 1:30pm, with a thirty minute break in between,” she says with a serious face. She says that activities differ from weekdays to weekends, where on weekdays her children have 30 minutes to play on their tablets or watch TV, and on Thursday they have a baking program, where they try to create something new. “On weekends we have a home picnic in the living room, which we transform into an open area, which is followed by a movie night with popcorn, chips and refreshments, just like in a movie theatre. We also create competitions to keep the kids creative, such as singing, storytelling and games. It’s always fun!”.