WOMEN in the country have been called upon to make use of Paralegals at the grassroots regardless of being at the national level, who would provide them with free legal aid, whenever they seek justice. Making the call in Lindi recently, Business Development and Communications Manager, Jane Matinde, from Legal Services Facility (LSF ) said that their assistance to the vulnerable people is free. That was after they offered free service to Rose Wangabo (39) from Rondo Mnara village in Lindi, while battling for her rights in a 19 year marriage that ended with a divorce. She said that LSF operates in all districts in the Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar, where it promotes access to justice for all, especially vulnerable groups of women, children and other needy in the community. “Paralegal role is to provide legal education and legal aid to community or individuals, who encounter injustice… they also support individuals to know court procedures and how to properly fill documents for their rights,” she added. Commenting on the community assistance, Scholastica Nguli, a Paralegal said there are more cases in the society and especially in rural areas, where women lose their rights after divorce for lack of knowledge on where and how to get legal rights. Referring to the case of Ms Wangabo, the Paralegal said that the former got married aged 19, adding: “Young girls in rural areas are forced into early marriages so that their parents get dowry, which they think would help them address poverty and that was the case for Rose Wangabo. “Ms Wangabo said that after 19 years of marriage it came to an end after realising that her husband, who was a civil servant, secretly took out his pension and used it without involving her.” Grieved by this, she proceeded to file a claim at the Primary Court, which later ordered her husband to build her a house as a settlement of the case. Ms Nguli noted that after the divorce, Ms Wangabo and her mother approached paralegals again for more legal support, saying: “We were forced to call her former husband, although at first he neglected our call and after several attempts, he came and after discussion he gave out some belongings to her, which included some furniture and two-and-a-half acres piece of land.” Speaking about the importance of paralegals at the locals, Ms Wangabo said: “I’ve seen a remarkable difference of how my past was during the conflict and now. However, today I can afford a smile because of the paralegals. I was literally blind, unable to see the light of day until their intervention and I now grow food crops and have planted over 200 trees, I intend to harvest as timber in a few years to come and accomplish my dream.”