INDEPENDENT Advocates who will be appointed to serve any senior position in the public service will no longer be allowed to defend accused persons in the court of law, parliament made a bold decision here yesterday. However, the decision will come into effect after President John Magufuli endorses the new Bill that was unanimously endorsed by the House into law. Attorney General (AG), Professor Adelardus Kilangi tabled in the National Assembly ‘The Written laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill’, 2020, in the august House, which proposed the new move. According to the AG, the amendments in the Advocates Act aimed at removing all possible means that were likely to result into conflict of interest when the appointees were discharging their official duties in the public service. “Equally the Bill proposes that during the entire period of their service to the public, the appointed leaders as well as all State Attorneys will not be required to pay yearly membership fees including any other payment during the course of discharging their duties in the public service. The new amendments further come as a blessing in disguise to Tanzanians in the sugar sector, which has always been a cat-and rat-game, almost every year. In the new Bill that was unanimously endorsed by lawmakers in the House yesterday, all distributors of sugar in the country will now be required to either be registered or be given an official permit under the country’s Sugar Industry Act, which has now been amended. “The new amendments aim at ensuring that the sugar board is purely supervising all businesspeople dealing with sugar in the country,’’ the AG told the National Assembly. Of recent, the country faced sugar shortage and President John Magufuli intervened to rescue the situation. The President called his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni, who agreed to sell about 26,000 tonnes of the sweetener to Tanzania. In the same Bill that is pending President John Magufuli’s endorsement to become law, the sugar council will no longer provide training on various issues pertaining to sugar, instead, the legislation proposes that the same training be provided by an institution. The new amendments also provide for sugar manufacturers to import sugar for normal consumption, and according to Prof Kilangi, the amendments aim at ensuring that there is transparency in importation of the product for daily use. Initially before amendments, the minister ought to prepare regulations after receiving recommendations from the sugar board, but, in the new amendments, the regulations by the minister will be drafted after consultation with the board.