PLANS are underway for the Tanzania Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) to start youth’s development programme from schools level, as one of the ideas towards promoting the sport. This was said by TKSA Chairman Abdallah Nyoni, who told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam that preparations are on top gear for them to kick off the programme, which targets youths aged between 12-20. He said that for the start, they plan to implement the programme in six regions, which include Arusha, Mwanza, Mbeya, Iringa, Coast Region and Dar es Salaam. “We are gearing up to introduce the game in school level, but it will go together with plans to reach those who are not at school in selected districts at each mentioned regions. “Each district will form youth kabaddi club in street, wards and in rural and urban schools,” he explained. He added that the training programmes will be held every Saturday or during schools holidays as well introducing youth kabaddi campaign to be conducted during school holidays. Nyoni insisted that the programme is designed to encourage the young people to be active in Kabaddi sports. “Regular sport and physical activities will be conducted by local instructors for all groups, including schools children, out of school youth clubs in villages, wards and district,” he said. The chairman further said that the programme aims to achieve several goals including increased capacity of young people to participate in sports activities. “They will also be able to take on sports administration, planning, event/competition, and sport management lessons. “It will also improve participations in kabaddi sports, increase skill levels of youth both boys and girls in the game and reduce social problems for participation in sports,” he added. Nyoni noted that the game has bright future in the country, if the programme will effectively be implemented. “Our hope is that many youths will join in this programme,” he said, while also appealing for sports well-wishers to come forward and support the programme, so as to motivate young players to work hard and take the game seriously.