SOME of the European countries have already started talking about resumption of their respective premier leagues in order to finish all their remaining matches and ensure they have all their champions in place in readiness for the UEFA Club Champions League. Countries like Germany and England have already provided their tentative dates on when their respective leagues are supposed to kick off. For instance, England is supposed to make their decision this month and Germany was talking of re-restarting the Bundesliga in June this year. Germany and England have resisted declaring league winners, with clubs which were already on top, Bayern Munich and Liverpool respectively picked as champions. In Germany, the Bundesliga is likely to kick off early next month after having managed to control further spreading of the deadly corona virus. In fact, Germany is picked as a country which is the best example of dealing with the corona virus pandemic. Other countries which are in the same league are South Korea and New Zealand. The deadly disease which has left no country in the world an untouched has caused a lot of problems which have literally destroyed the very economic fabric of each and every country in the world, from developing to developed. From the very first day, European countries brought to a halt sports activities, their premier league provided programmes to their players to train, individually, in their respective homes. I’m not very sure about players in our Mainland Premier League clubs, although there were a couple of stories, here and there, over some coaches providing more or less similar, self-training programmes to their players. I’m saying, I’m not sure because one of the problems we have in the sports sector in this country is lack of planning and organisation, and that explains why we always fail from regional to international sports tournaments. For instance, one of the coaches said he did not have much faith in the self-training programmes he had provided for his players because of the challenges he had before the onset of the deadly corona virus pandemic. He wondered that if they had had problems training the players in groups before the onset of the pandemic, he was not sure they would have the requisite discipline to train, individually, in their respective homes. On Sunday, one of the local English newspapers wrote about the uncertain future of the players of one big, premier league clubs in the city. I’m not sure about the veracity of what that newspaper wrote. But if what that newspaper wrote is true, then that just goes to explain the kind of problems our clubs have in the realm of planning and organisation. The point is, if our clubs have problems in managing their players off the pitch, how would they manage their players, individually, and in their respective homes? Anyway, that is just one of those things that our clubs and their respective coaches need to seriously work on, hence build and protect their images. It’s agreed, corona virus pandemic has really messed up our sportsmen and women, especially those who are involved in sports which also provide them livelihood, namely, the semi and full, fledged professionals. Yet this is the time that club leaderships would be tested over their ability to lead. The same thing can be said about leaders in the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). Before the invasion of the corona virus pandemic in Tanzania two months ago, our national football teams were involved in different, continental qualification tournaments including the Afcon. Since the eruption of the pandemic and the postponements of all international sports tournaments, our players have been thrown into forceful hibernation. TFF’s leadership would be judged if our national sports teams, including the football teams, perform well in their respective tournaments once corona virus is conquered. What this means is that for our national football teams to do well after the end of the corona virus, the TFF through the coaches need to work on the players of the national team now, and individually, in their respective homes. If the TFF succeed in such train, yourself sports programmes, the federation would have demonstrated its leadership ability and that could easily help them getting at the helm of the federation in the next election. For people elect a leadership not just for the heck of it but for deliverables victories in regional and international soccer tournaments is one of such things. Therefore, this is the time, when all sports men and women in the world are supposed to have locked themselves inside their respective houses, others exploit the absence of international sports competitions in preparing themselves once the sports lockdown is over.