POLICE in the Lake Zone have recovered a total of 825 motorcycles and other items which were earlier stolen by robbers in a month-long operation mounted in the region. The operation was effected after the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Simon Sirro issued an order following an increase in cases of theft and loss of the equipment in Mwanza, Geita, Shinyanga, Simiyu, Tabora, Tarime Rorya, Mara and Kagera regions. According to a report released to the media yesterday in Mwanza by Special Operations Police Commander Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP), Mihayo Msikhela, the operation was conducted from May 4 to May 29, 2020 in eight regions. SACP Msikhela said that through the operation, it came to their attention that most owners of the motorbikes didn’t have written agreements with their riders, nor did they take trouble to know their background history. SACP Msikhela said they also noted that some motorbikes had number plates of the companies from which they were purchased while others had their ownership details unchanged after being sold to other persons. He said other owners fabricated the number plates on their own, something which was against the law. Giving an example, SACP Msikhela said they arrested three people in connection with production of number plates for the motorcycles in Mara Region. Commander Msikhela said that in another development, they arrested 12 people suspected of stealing 106 boats at Juma, Gembale and Zilagula islands in Lake Victoria in Sengerema District in Mwanza Region while in Tabora Region they arrested three people alleged to be killers. Also during the special operation in Geita Region, two people were arrested over suspicions of stealing four tyres of Toyota Surf with number T 477 ACY which they carried in a tricycle with number MC 688 BXA TVS KING. “I am directing people to report to the police people they suspect of being robbers before they engage in their illegal practices so as to save their properties, early” said Commander Msikhela. About 354 cases have been instituted in courts in Lake Zone in relation to thefts of motorcycles and other items.