THIS is an election year and despite the Covid -19 pandemic which poses threats to the process, government leaders are upbeat that the elections will be held. Preparations are already underway for the General Elections after assurance by top government leaders. President John Magufuli was the first to say that the general elections will be held as planned despite the COVID- 19 outbreak. “The elections will be held as planned. There are people who think that the elections will be postponed. Nobody wants to stay in office forever,” Dr Magufuli said in a statement recently. President Magufuli statement has been echoed by leaders in Z anzibar last week. “Let me make it very clear that nothing will stop the elections, nothing at all, even COVID-19 will not,” the Second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi said when asking his fellow lawmakers in the House of Representatives to approve his office’s budget for the 2021 fiscal year. Iddi’s statement in the House also came after State Minister (responsible for elections) Mr Mohamed Aboud Mohamed said that the viral coronavirus has affected many planned activities in the country, but “Elections will be conducted and Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) is prepared to win!” Prior to the leaders’ statements, there has been much public debate going on whether elections should be done. Some people are imagining conducting elections amid coronavirus crisis globally, as some have the views that the democratic process must continue. Mr Kombo Hassan is probably too late to argue that people could be infected as they attend mass campaign, use voting equipment to select candidates, and that because at a polling station could have more than 300 voters, and “this assumes that a lot of people will be contaminated.” He is among the people who think that some people think it would be a “disaster” if public campaign rallies are allowed and people vote traditional amid COVID-19 outbreak, scores could be infected. But the authorities say ‘ we should prepare for the elections towards the end of this year’ as the government promises to ensure that security will be adequately provided to voters, election officers, and other people to participate peacefully. Mr Abubakar Khamis a political analyst says people should not waste time debating whether election should held this or not. “Our leaders have made it clear and that elections will be held as already both electoral bodies in the country: National Electoral Commission (NEC) and Z anzibar Electoral Commission (Z EC) are proceeding with preparations." Last week NEC, which is responsible for Union and MPs elections in Mainland and Zanzibar, concluded second and last round of updating voters register, while ZEC announced that in preparation for the elections, it plans to review the number, name, and boundaries of the electoral constituencies. The review of the number, names, and boundaries of the electoral constituencies is backed by section 120 (4) of the Z anzibar constitution of 1984, which empowers ZEC to do the revision after every eight to ten years or any time when there is a need. ZEC Chairman retired Chief Justice in Isles, Hamid Mahmoud Hamid said in a press statement that it has been prompted to review constituencies’ boundaries after complains against the structure and population in some constituencies increased. Zanzibar currently has a total of 54 constituencies, following the review carried out in 2015. The number of constituencies’ was increased from 50 (with 18 constituencies in Pemba and 32 in Unguja Island). The retired Chief Justice said “COVID-19 pandemic has prevented us from conducting public forums, but we invite views from stakeholders (individual citizens, NGOs, political parties, among others). You can use email or physical delivery of letter, to present views about the proposed reforms.” He said ZEC has completed the first phase of updating of the voters register (verification of old voters and registering of new voters) was successfully done from January 18, 2020 to March 15, 2020. The voters’ register so far has 413,444 cleared voters including 214, 117 women for the next General elections. More than 500,000 registered to vote in 2015/2016 disputed elections. He said ZEC is planning to conduct another round of updating voters’ register so that those who missed in the first exercise can have the opportunity, and also that for those who want to their voting constituencies changed, because of shifting to new areas, are now invited to apply for the changes before it is too late. Both Zanzibar House of Representatives and the Union Parliament are expected to be dissolved at the end of the current budget sessions for the 2020/2021. Dissolution (the act of dissolving) happens when: the Government’s fixed five-year term is complete, or if the Government loses a vote on certain important bills in the House. Electoral bodies will in the near future release timetable for the elections expected in October this year, as Political parties also start internal (inter-party) preparations which include how to get their candidates. Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party fans are already gossiping about who is likely to be their candidate for the Isles Presidency and successor of President Ali Mohamed Shein, if the party wins the elections. The Zanzibar and union CCM candidates for the top positions are expected to be known in June this year. If the emerging views of CCM fans baking President John Magufuli for the second term are put into consideration, he will be the candidate for the union, and any lucky man or women among the mentioned cadres in the isles will stand for the party in the isles. At this ‘preliminary’ stage of the planned elections, at least five opposition political parties: CUF, ADA-TADEA, AFP, and ACT-Wazalendo are already talking, through social media, about contesting and planning how to face the ruling CCM. According to the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA) at least twenty (20) countries and territories have decided to hold national or sub-national elections as originally planned despite concerns related to COVID- 19. As an example Burundi is holding presidential elections on 20th May 2020 while in South Korea where more than 10,909 cases of COVID-19 and 256 reported deaths (as of 11 May), citizens were able to vote in-person before and during the election day. Semistocles Kaijage, the chairman of the National Electoral Commission, said the commission has completed its first phase of updating the voters’ registry that began on July 18, 2019 and ended on February 23, 2020 with over 11 million voters registered. Both ZEC and NEC have conducting training of staff, local commissioners and electoral agents in the country. Some analysts see that probably the good part of ‘COVID-19’ is that funding for the local elections scheduled for October 2020, within political parties, may decrease because of many activities may be cancelled.