TANZANIAN truck owners are in deadlock following Rwanda’s stance that one of their nationals must be part of a crew that transports cargo into the country amid coronavirus threat. Rwandan government issued new guidelines to manage truck drivers, where it directed truck owners to have at least two drivers per vehicle, one being from Tanzania and his colleague from Rwanda. The move has been protested by truck owners, most of who said it does not make sense one putting one’s vehicle(s) and cargo into the hands of people they have no formal agreement with. As each party balances the weight of the matter, several trucks are stranded at Rusumo Border, according to spokesperson of the Tanzania Trucks Owners Association (TATOA), Mr Rahim Dossa. “We are in a dilemma, we presented the matter to the Rwandan government and we need immediate solution,” Mr Dossa told the ‘Daily News’ over the phone yesterday. He said truck owners had also submitted their sentiments and recommendations on the matter to the Federation of East African Freight Forwarders Associations (FEAFFA), during the recent stakeholders’ meeting. Under the new arrangement, Rwandan authorities want truck owners to have two drivers, where one from the Tanzania’s side would drive the vehicle to the border and remain there after handing over to his Rwandese colleague, who would continue with the portion of the journey in the country as a measure to stop spread of the coronavirus. This means the Tanzanian driver would drive and remain at Rusumo border in Tanzania’s side and handover the truck and its cargo to the Rwandese, who would drive it to Kigali for offloading the consignment with no formal agreement earlier reached. This is what the Tanzanian logistics companies argue as a risky business, where one hands over his vehicle and cargo to a foreigner one is not familiar with. “Apart from safety of our vehicles, we are worried of our customers’ cargo. If the cargo is lost or damaged, you can’t know whether it is Tanzanian or Rwandan driver who should be responsible,” Mr Dossa argued. However, he recommended testing the Tanzanian driver at the border, and only allow him to continue with the journey once he tests negative and as well disinfect the truck(s). It was earlier reported that Rwandan Minister of infrastructure, Mr Claver Gatete, held discussions with his Tanzanian counterpart Eng Isack Kamwelwe, the Minister for Transport and some Tanzanian truck owners over the matter. “We have addressed most of the issues that have been raised by our Tanzanian counterparts. We are even working with them to see what can be done and improved,” Mr Gatete was quoted as saying. He said the Rwandan government has laid out options for Tanzanian truck drivers, including providing temporary residence permits to them, while staying in the country during this Covid-19 period. Meanwhile, Rwanda is among Tanzanian’s neighbouring countries that have been using the Port of Dar es Salaam for importing various cargos to their countries. The port of Dar es Salaam handles over 85 percent of cargo destined for or transiting to and through Rwanda. Rwanda imports from Tanzania salt, sulphur, earth, stone, plaster, lime and cement, besides edible vegetables and certain roots and tubers. The country also imports fish, crustaceans, aquatics invertebrates, mineral fuels, oils, distillation products, oil seeds, oleagic, grain, seed and fruits from Tanzania. The list also includes importing, vehicles and other industrial equipment from abroad via the country, where according to global EDGE, Tanzania total export to Rwanda in 2018 was 685.6m US dollar. According to Rwanda country commercial guide ‘export.gov, Rwanda total imports from various countries in 2018 stood at 2,425bn/-US dollar. 