THE Treasury bill (T-bill) auctioned on Wednesday implied that investors are more interested to invest in very short-term tenure as Covid-19 pandemic continues biting the global economies. The T-bill results show that investors went for short-term bills namely 35, 91, and 182, which were oversubscribed and ignored 364 days to see it undersubscribed. Tanzania Securities Senior Investment Analyst, Ombeni Uhuru, said in an interview that the 35 and 91 days were oversubscribed by 1.0bn/-each, and 182 days by 12.65bn/-; while 364 bill was undersubscribed by 14.5bn/-. “This implies that investors are more interested to invest in very short-term tenure due to perceived risk brought by the Covid-19 pandemic in the global economy,” Mr Uhuru told Daily News. Also, the fact that the 364 days rate is not attractive to investors that it’s better to buy other tenures then replicate the same in the future auction, the analysts said. “[This] creates handsome return over the period than buying a complete 364 days Treasury bill,” he said. This lower oversubscription during this auction was due to the yield decline trend for the past auctions. The weighted average yield (WAY) to maturity for 35 days was 2.92 per cent same level compared to previous auction. The yields for 91 days was slightly down by 0.01 percentage point to 3.44 per cents while 82 days was up to 3.98 per cent from 4.06 per cent and 364 days stagnated at 4.98 per cent. “We remain positive that WAY will remain stable but wary about the impact of the Covid-19 Pandemic on the overall interest rate that the government is borrowing from the public,” Mr Uhuru said. Tanzania Securities said they have witnessed a decline in the WAY for government securities which was driven by higher demand and appetite exhibited by investors. “We expect the short-term rate to remain stable but longterm and medium-term rate of government securities to keep fluctuating and a higher chance to be skewed to the left,” Mr Uhuru said. Overall, the bill auctioned yesterday was slightly oversubscribed by 0.14 per cent which was minimum than the previous auction. Before the bill auctioned Tanzania Securities projected the instrument to be oversubscribed since the investment is considered risk free. “We can’t anticipate the extent of the impact of Covid- 19 in the overall interest rate, but we are still wary of the decline in the interest rates due to the higher demand for government treasuries,” Tanzania Securities said in the report early this week.