THE Minister of State in the Vice- President’s Office (Union and Environment), Mr Mussa Zungu has slapped Tanzania Environment Management Council (NEMC) and Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (TANESCO) with a ten day notice to conduct an impact assessment survey at Kidatu Dam and serve him with a report after its banks bursted and consequently flooded close areas. Mr Zungu took the stance, while in a joint tour with Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani at the site to inspect how the overflow was affecting the surrounding villages. “It is important to conduct an impact assessment caused by the overflow of the dam, and to what extent the dam itself might have been affected by soil erosion,” he said. He said the dam might have been affected by sedimentation and that forced some of its water content to divert. “The Rufiji Hydro Power Plant depends on the availability of adequate water from various sources there, and therefore, we need a proper assessment to ensure that there is enough water to supply the project in question,” he added. Mr Zungu further said since his ministry was tasked with environmental protection, he will make sure that water sources are well protected in a bid to supply adequate water to Rufiji Dam. “The government has committed a lot of resources in making sure that Rufiji project becomes effective, thus it’s our role as Conservationist to make sure that the project is sustainable,” he said. However, the Minister stressed on the need for more advocacy awareness to the public on how they should conserve the environment, especially in water sources, which should include discouraging villagers from tilling land close to river banks. “I call upon Tanzanians wherever they are to protect water sources, because with that they will be assured of constant water supply and power generation which speed up economic development,” he pointed out. On his part, Dr Kalemani said his ministry has already formed a taskforce to conduct the impact assessment that would make sure that Rufiji Dam gets no interference from human activities, but instead concentrates fully on hydro power generation and produces 2115 megawatts. “The volume of water needed at Rufiji Dam is 32 million cubic meters, thus it is important that water sources are thoroughly protected to ensure adequate flow,” he said. Commenting, Morogoro Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Loata Sanare said his area government was educating people on the importance of conserving water sources and as well discouraging settlements near water sources, which normally flood during rainy seasons. Reached for a comment, National Environment Management Council (NEMC) Director General, Dr Samuel Gwamaka said the minister's directives would be worked on. “We are at work and it is our optimism that our minister’s directives will be implemented,” Dr Gwamaka said. 