DR Augustine Mahiga, Minister for Justice and Constitutional Affairs’ departure, it is a bridge between the West and Africa that is affected, said French Ambassador to Tanzania Frederic Clavier, in memory of a man, he personally worked with before passing away in Dodoma on Friday. “Dr. Mahiga, was a far-reaching diplomat, probably the most gifted and respected of his generation in Tanzania, who is suddenly gone. He will have marked his time, as a great apostle of peace. “I have known him since 2009 and had esteem, admiration and affection for him. In Somalia, in his role as Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, he worked tirelessly to bring together, the most complicated and varied factions. “I recall, we met with our teams during his visits to Paris. We had long discussions that made me appreciate the high-flying diplomat: constantly listening, offering finesse of the analysis, implementation of prudent strategies adapted to each situation. “We not only loved his character, he was such a pleasant person, wearing a contagious smile, amusing and with joyful appearance. His politico-military analyses were highly appreciated by his interlocutors, in particular, the French Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, who expressed his appreciation to him, during their tê te à tê te meeting in F ebruary 2018 in Paris. It was evident at the meeting he was constantly looking for the best solution for all the protagonists. “He knew how to give time and maneuver skillfully to achieve the diplomatic result he had set for himself. He was one of the top notch inspirers of the first session of the Tanzania-F rance Diplomatic Consultations in June 2018 in Paris. “An anecdote comes to mind. We were invited in 2010 by the British government to Wilton Park Castle to think about an exit strategy from the Somali crisis and Dr Augustine Mahiga was admirable there: After three days of work, he brilliantly synthesized our views and fixed a diplomatic perspective. I reminded him, when we met in Bamako in January 2017, at the Africa- F rance Summit, and, modest as he is, he just smiled. “All French ambassadors to the United Nations enjoyed working with him, appreciating his frankness and his pragmatism. In all his functions, he made Tanzania shine, carrying his mission with determination and talent, his messages of peace and stability, with also the courage and great professionalism which characterised him. He knew what Tanzania, a respected country, could bring to Africa and the world. “May the young generation of Tanzanian diplomats be inspired by this great elder, and we do not forget his wonderful personality, made of rigour and talent, who forever honoured Tanzania and the great family of diplomats, eulogised Ambassador Clavier to the Minister, he wished his style of reasoning and leadership be emulated by present and coming generations of Tanzanians.