TORRENTIAL rain that hit almost all parts of the country this year has not only brought damage to infrastructure as a recent report states, the implementation of power projects in rural areas in the Lake Zone have also been disrupted. A survey conducted in various parts of the Lake Zone has established that most power projects under Rural Energy Agency (REA) will be delayed as their implementation has now stopped. Tanesco in the Lake Zone, through REA phase III, has so far been able to electrify 570 villages by more than 87 per cent in the area. The status of REA projects in the Lake Zone was revealed recently in Mwanza City by Tanesco Zone Manager Maclean Mbonile when he was asked to give details on the achievements recorded in project implementation. According to Mr Mbonile, the rain that hit most parts of the country washed away bridges, including damaging roads, which has caused challenges to contractors as they were unable to move materials such as electric poles and wires and accessories to project sites on time. However, he said despite the challenges, contractors had implemented the project by at least 87.8 per cent. REA’s phase III project targets include reaching about 970 villages in Mwanza, Geita, Mara, Simiyu and Kagera regions. The project is planned to be completed next month. “Since the work to dig holes and install poles has been completed the only remaining task is to fix wires and connect power to clients’ houses. W e hope until June the work will be ready,” said Mr Mbonile. He appealed to contractors implementing the project to accomplish the task as planned and urged villagers residing near the project to utilise the opportunity by connecting their houses to power at 27,000/- only. The contractor implementing the project said they had been working hard to ensure the project was completed on time, but the outbreak of the Covid -19 pandemic was likely to affect them due to a shortage of materials expected to be imported from overseas. Ms Jackline Mushi, Project Manager of White City Guangdong JV Company Ltd installing power infrastructure in Simiyu and Geita regions said the outbreak of Covid -19 and delays in disbursing funds had caused challenges in project implementation. REA Director Amosy Maganga said he was aware of some of challenges facing contractors in project implementation, including heavy rain which had affected different sites. “Among the 60 contractors implementing the project between 27 and 30 are expected to complete their work on time while others will not manage due to various reasons ... some have already presented their letters requesting for time extension,” said Mr Maganga.