FORMER international and Dar es Salaam based Simba SC central defender, Jamhuri ‘Julio’ Kiwhelo, once described Tanzanian soccer players ‘as lacking in selfawareness, hence their failure to get far in their respective career.’ Kiwhelo, who has also coached many soccer clubs, including his own former club, Simba, both as assistant and substantive coach said unlike foreign, African players in Mainland’s Premier League, local players still req uire to be supervised even when it comes to keeping their own bodies physically fit! Says Kiwhelo; “Soccer is a profession… it’s also a talent that the Almighty God has given to a player. But our local players’ main problem is their lack of awareness over what they’re endowed with and the need to harness, for their own good the talent they have.” “We have very talented soccer players… they’re very good even before they get to a coach,” but he added, “but the problem is that they still need to be supervised over their own destiny.” Kiwhelo recalls his time at his former club, Simba when he was the chief coach. He says whenever the club was in residential training, away from the bustling city, every morning he would go and wake up his players in readiness for workout. One day, says Kiwhelo, “my central defender and international, George Masatu who was always first in the morning told me, ‘coach, stop waking up players, they are old enough to know their responsibility.’ Kiwhelo concluded that Masatu was not only a highly, disciplined player, but he also did very well in each club he had played for. I had the opportunity of seeing George Masatu during his playing days. I personally consider George Masatu as one of the five, best left full backs I have seen in in this country since 1970. Others are Y oung Africans’ Kitenge, Mtwara’s Mohamed Chuma, Mohamed Kajole and Lucas Nkondola. Had George Masatu been playing today, he would have been bought by some of the best premier league clubs in Europe. For those who had no opportunity of seeing this man from Mara region, he was not different both in his style of play and body stature with Manchester United wonder boy, Aaron Wan-Bissaka. Perhaps the only difference between the two was that Masatu had more muscles and his tackling was harder, but clean. The same thing could be said about the then lanky, Jamhuri who brought to an end Kitwana Manara’s aerial supremacy whenever his team, Young Africans played against their arch soccer rivals, Simba. Before the arrival of Jamhuri on the scene, no Simba’s central defender could handle Manara who was not only good in the air, buoyed by both his height and well, built muscles, but he was also very rough. Because of his rough play both on the ground and airborne, which was extremely difficult to be spotted by any referee defenders, and in particular, goalkeepers feared him after he had decided to shift from the goal, where he had been one of the safest hands in the continent, to a striker. But during his good, old days, when he used to turn out as first goalkeeper both for Young Africans and the national soccer team, Kitwana was feared by his opponents, especially when corner kicks were being taken against him. A former striker with Kenya’s Abaluhya United present day AFC Leopards, John Nyawanga testifies on Kitwana Manara’s rough play in his goal area in his comments in the book entitled; Joe Kadenge: The Life of Soccer Legend authored by a Kenyan journalist, John Nene, who works for the BBC. Nyawanga says Kitwana used to punch players from the opposition team when corner kicks were being taken against his goal. He says, he would rise in the air, in course of collecting the ball and punch you simultaneously. However, when Jamhuri entered the scene, he tamed Kitwana in ‘aerial battles’ the latter’s rough play notwithstanding. Kiwhelo’s comments are not known. In fact, what he has said forms the bulk of what I have written in my two sports columns published twice a week, on Wednesday and Saturday, in the Daily News titled FROM TOUCHLINE and THE SPORTSCENE respectively. Perhaps the only difference is that this time round, the comments have been made not only by a coach and himself a former player, but also a person who knows Tanzanian players to the core having himself once been one of them not in character but as a player. In fact, had Kiwhelo been playing today, he would have definitely played either for the top African soccer clubs or in any of the European premier league clubs. I have written times without number over what Kiwhelo has said about our local players and attributed their failure to joint professional ranks abroad in the say way Kiwhelo has said. And talking about talents, our neighbours, that includes Kenya and Uganda, have always wondered over our players’ failure to send abroad more Mbwana Samattas. Two years ago, after a friendly match between Taifa Stars and Harambee Stars, Tottenham Hotspurs’ Kenyan midfielder, Victor Wanyama had this to say; “When you Tanzanian soccer players in action, you sometimes just wonder why they are not playing in European elite soccer clubs.” Wanyama would not have said what he said if he had not seen massive talent in Tanzanian soccer players. And he said that because in the match that had ended in a two-all draw, literally nameless Tanzanian players had reduced him into nothing but a novice his playing for a topflight English premier club nothwistanding. Again, the massive talent that Kiwhelo and Wanyama talks about Tanzanian soccer players is not new. The first person to note the country’s soccer talent galore was former Fifa instructor, Bukhard Pape. The German, who had coached Uganda Cranes in 1970s after a stint in Egypt, first arrived in Tanzania as Fifa instructor in mid 70s and would later make the most famous statement about the country’s soccer talent being second to none in Africa. Pape said Tanzania was one of the four African countries which had amazing soccer talents. He named three others as Senegal, Cameroun and Ghana. Even Nigeria does not appear in Pape’s list and out of the four countries, only Tanzania has never qualified for the Fifa World Cup finals. But two the four African countries have already won the Africa Cup of Nations.