AT least 16,139 tonnes of grapes were produced in Tanzania in the last 2018/19 season, of which 11,552 were sold for both domestic and export markets, the National Assembly was informed yesterday. In a response issued by the Ministry of Agriculture to Special Seats MP Felister Bura (CCM), the ministry said the production of the key commercial crop in the country had risen by 114 per cent from 7,527 tonnes produced in the 2013/14 season. The government’s production plan, however, is to reach 22,000 during the 2024/25 season. Minister for Agriculture Japhet Hasunga said during the last season that out of 11,552 tonnes, at least 7,551 tonnes were sold to local processing factories for wine making as 2,205 tonnes were sold at a retail price. “About 1,796 tonnes were exported to neighbouring Kenya,” the minister noted. The minister insisted that demand for both wine-making and table grapes in the local market were relatively high, but authorities would continue exploring new markets especially in neighbouring countries.  Mr Hasunga’s clarification came after the lawmaker’s concern that the grapes produced in Dodoma had no reliable markets. Ms Felista Bura said farmers were investing heavily and the cost of production was also high. She appealed to the government to highlight strategies to ensure reliable markets for grapes production in the country. Responding, the minister said the government had also been using its diplomatic missions across the world to market grape production in Dodoma. “The government will continue helping to secure markets through other means, including bilateral and trade agreements it signed with foreign countries,” he said. Nonetheless, the minister said the state had been encouraging local investors and farmers to process their products to add value by at least 15 tonnes from 2.25 tonnes per acre. Grapes are widely produced in Dodoma, but crop studies show there is the potential for it to be farmed in other regions, including Singida, Tabora, Mara, Manyara, Tanga, Iringa and Ruvuma. During the last season, 2,079 hectares were farmed in Dodoma.