INITIATIVES to curb tax evasion and gain sovereignty over natural resources are significant for domestic resource mobilisation and economic self-reliance. For a developing country like Tanzania where a significant amount of revenue is derived from corporate taxation, appropriate tax reforms backed by strong and independent institutions are essential. Tanzania’s journey of hope in the mining sector started on November 5, 2015 when Dr John Magufuli was announced the winner of the general election. The 2015 general election constituted a key step towards the fight against corruption and aspiration for economic self-reliance. As promised during the campaign, President Magufuli’s government launched sweeping and profound reforms commencing with an anti-corruption campaign across key economic sectors, including mining and petroleum. Such reforms aimed at increasing domestic resources which could be used to invest in schools, healthcare systems, water, electricity and other social services. The newly appointed government encountered a mining sector known for low remittances of royalties and corporation taxes. This was due to poor sector policies and institutional weaknesses, tax evasion, trade mis-invoicing and transfer pricing by multinational companies. A special committee appointed by President John Magufuli indicated that Acacia Gold Mining PLC owned by Barrick Gold Corporation from Canada under-reported gold and copper levels in its concentrate exports by more than 10 times. The Tanzania Tax Tribunal also accused Acacia that it posted huge profits and paid dividends to shareholders based in London from 2010 to 2013 up to about $412.5 million, yet for the same period, it declared loses in its Tanzania subsidiary. The dispute culminated in a $190 billion tax charge and an industry-wide ban on the export of raw minerals. The case has since been settled through a mutual agreement between the government of Tanzania and Barrick Gold Corp (which took over Acacia through a buy-out deal of $1.2 billion). The agreement includes the payment of $300 million to settle outstanding tax and other disputes, the lifting of a concentrate export ban, and the sharing of future economic benefits from mines on a 50/50 basis. A joint venture between the government and Barrick Gold named Twiga Minerals Corporation, was formed to manage Bulyanhulu, North Mara and Buzwagi mines. The GoT will acquire a free carried shareholding of 16 per cent in each of the mines and will receive its half of the economic benefits from taxes, royalties, clearing fees and participation in all cash distributions made by the mines and Twiga. An annual true-up mechanism will ensure the maintenance of the 50/50 split. These bold steps have been said to have reduced investor confidence in the Tanzania mining sector and generally created an unstable business environment for investors. These arguments, however, lose sight of the fact that these reforms also serve the interest of mining companies. For example, the Local Content Bill which required that 51 percent stake of a mining company’s share is to be owned by Tanzanians has been reduced to 20 percent, easing registration and expansion initiatives by mining companies. The mining sector policies and laws were earlier skewed towards multi-national companies leaving very little benefits (if any) to Tanzania. Already, tax cuts and tax breaks are handed to mining corporations at enormous cost in foregone government revenues. These revenues could have been spent on infrastructure, public schools, support for maternal health care, girl child education, thereby propelling the country towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The onus clearly lies in the government to halt tax exemptions and illicit financial flows through appropriate tax policy reforms and empowerment of revenue collection institutions. The initial steps are appropriate. The following recommendations should further be taken by the government to safeguard the win and ensure a more regional approach to make multinational companies pay fair taxes. Government should hence: Strengthen anti-money laundering responsibility requirements and penalties on accountable persons including corporations, banks and other related parties. This should be accompanied with forming multi-agency teams to address customs fraud, tax evasion and other financial crimes. Adopt and enforce legislation barring trade mis-invoicing which require companies to confirm compliance with this law by signing a specific declaration of compliance on annual reports or tax filings. Support Customs and Revenue authorities with up-to-date trade pricing databases to facilitate risk management of the potential for trade mis-invoicing. Protect and safeguard workers’ interest in the mining sector. Workers need permanent contracts covered by a collective agreement. Despite the major developments in the sector, a significant proportion of the workers do not have permanent work contracts. For a thriving sector, the rights of workers, including their rights to form or join unions must be protected. Their health and safety at work should be secured by ensuring that they work with appropriate protective clothing and equipment. Workers who encounter accidents in their line of duty should be duly and adequately compensated. Protecting workers in the mining sector also includes protecting revenue collectors by ensuring that they are adequately resourced, well remunerated and protected by a whistleblowing convention to share critical information with relevant authorities. To prevent other countries reducing their corporate tax rates in their quest to attract investors, leading to a race to the bottom, Tanzania should work with countries within the East African Community bloc to agree on a minimum effective tax rate of at least 25 per cent. With a minimum effective tax rate of 25 per cent, a multinational company cannot plan to push its profits into a country which may have a very low corporate tax rate. Without a minimum effective tax rate, the idea of unitary taxation through a formulary apportionment would be defeated. The formulary apportionment idea is to tax a multinational company and its subsidiary as a unified global firm. This means that the multinational’s profits would be divided up for taxing purposes between the different countries where it does business, based on a formula which considers where the company has its sales, where its employees are and what physical assets and resources it uses. Discourage multinational companies pushing their profits into tax havens. Tax havens have become part of the global financial architecture. The various leaks of the last five years-Panama Papers, Paradise Leaks, West Africa Leaks, Luxembourg Leaks, Luanda Leaks, are clear manifestations that multinational companies use and continue to use tax havens to hoard their profits. It has been reported that as at 2019, $420 billion of corporate profit from about 79 countries is shifted into tax havens. Tanzania can discourage corporations stashing their profits in tax havens by instituting higher withholding taxes, denying tax deductions for payments to related parties in tax havens, and for companies which use tax havens, bar from bidding public contracts. Right to information and transparency requirements are important in exposing the acts of shrewd business parties involved in transfer pricing, trade mis-invoicing and other corrupt acts that lead to lose of government revenues. At this juncture, the work of the task-force on tax reforms under the Ministry of Finance and Planning should be commended. It has provided opportunities for civil society organisations (CSOs) and trade unions (TU) to participate in its proceedings. CSOs and trade unions have shared with government their experiences based on more than a decade of campaigns for tax justice and an end to illicit financial flows in the mining sector in Tanzania. The process should ensure that these stakeholders are informed about reforms that have been initiated and provided with relevant information so that they can monitor and evaluate government tax reform initiatives. The journey has just started in bringing back sovereignty over natural resources in Tanzania. ● The authors: Amani Mustafa Mhinda is Haki Madini Executive Director and Daniel Oberko is Public Services International (PSI) Tax and Trade Organiser.