THE story of Ark or Safina from holy books tales us how the vessel was built and used to serve Noah’s family together different animals, birds and insects from floods which engulfed the whole world after it was saturated with water for more than 40 days. According to holy books before this catastrophe, GOD the creator asked Noah to take on board the vessel or Teba in Hebrew to take two of every living thing, and seven pairs of every clean creature and of every bird, together with sufficient food. The holly books continues to tale us that after seven there was heavy rainfall for forty days and nights which filled all valleys and swallowed hills, chains of mountains and peaks tallest mountains killing all creatures on the earth. For about 150 days Noah’s arks stayed afloat on water before it landed on mountains of Ararat, meanwhile from thousands of years ago the action packed annual migration around the Greater Serengeti Ecosystem is influenced by distribution of rainfalls on an area which covers more than 34,752 square kilometers. This happens when a large contingent of about 1.5 million animals like wildebeests, zebras and antelopes migrate from Serengeti national park to Maswa, Grumet and Ikorongo game reserves, Ngorongoro Conservation Area and Maasai Mara national reserve before they go back where their journey started. All these happen as people asking themselves the origin of water on earth but scientists believe that about 4.5 years ago a huge rainy cloud from Mars hovered on top of our planet and brought shower for the first on land. On the other side, from time in history humans, animals, birds and insects continue to live on the Earth where the depend on nuts, seeds, fruits, cereals, and leaves and grasses which are nourished by rain in different season of the year. Scientists say rainfall is one of different stages of a big hydrological cycle which also called H2O cycle that allow water in different forms to rotate in and around the planet earth. This process enable liquid water from different sources inside tropical rainforests to flow through streams which forms big rivers such as Ruvu, Wami, Pangani, Ruvuma, Malagarasi and Rufiji that pour all their contents into Indian ocean every year from 150 million years ago. This become more significant when big lakes such as Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa join hands with other bigger water bodies on earth such as Pacific, Atlantic and Indian ocean to make 361.132 square kilometers which occupy 70.08% of the total area of planet earth. Due to this size, scientists estimate that all water bodies around the world harbor more than 230,000 marine species were crocodile and hippopotamus are found around river and lakes, sharks, dolphins and whales dwell in different sea and oceans of the world. With about 1.3 billion cubic kilometers of water, streams, rivers, lakes, seas and oceans play a big of preserving water in liquid form for longer period than any parts in and around the planet earth. Scientists estimate before evaporating into the sky one liter of water spend more than 3,200 years moving from one part to another inside large water bodies such as Pacific, Atlantic and Indian ocean but this period lasts up to more than 20,000 years in Antarctic and Arctic. While depending on supply from different streams and rivers, big lakes such as Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa are capable of preserving one liter of water for a period which lasts between 50 to 100 years before it is discharged into the sea through big rivers such Nile which empty its content into Mediterranean sea. Unlike streams and rivers such as Wami, Ruaha and Rufiji which pass under forest canopies, the rate of evaporation on lakes, seas and oceans is bigger because of large surface which exposed to sunrays from the sky. Hot sunrays hit water on the surface of a lake and heat its molecules into a boiling point where they are transformed into vapors which through a process called evaporation escape into the sky where they form rainy clouds. Different factors affect this process but the number of molecules and good amount of oxygen in a single drop of water on the surface of a water body play an important role in evaporation on big lake such as Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa. When rate of fresh air that enter into a water body become bigger it accelerate the rate of evaporation on the surface of a lake or ocean, while gravitation force which upon molecules may bring down the rate of evaporation on the surface water. At a long process of the big hydrological cycle, the evaporation stage plays a crucial role to purify water before sending it to the sky where it stay in form of clouds before it turns into rain which nourish lives of animals, birds, insects and vegetation on the earth. At the same time scientists say about 20% of all amount of water that is available on the earth accumulate on the Aquifer, this is an underground storage which receive water through infiltration on porous underground rock and accumulate one big area. The upper part of an Aquifer is called water table as scientists say the precious liquid may be stored into this underground storage for a period which lasts between 100 to 10,000 years before coming out through underground stream and springs. After a rain season, good amount of rain water accumulate on valleys, flood plains and other wetlands which become source of water for different animals in different national parks and game reserve such as Selouse and Moyowosi. Scientists estimate that all these reservoirs may store water for a period which lasts for more than three months while providing water for buffaloes of Katavi national and quenching thirsty Gerenuk, Oryx and other animals in Mkomazi national park at the time when there is no rain. Through the same process of hydrological cycle, water from these storages allow water go through evaporation and escape into sky as vapor while between 1% and 0.5 % all surface water is used by different plants through their roots. During dry season through a process called transpiration plants allow 99% of water which go into the sky in the form of vapor from stomata which their numbers on a leaf affect the rate of evaporation from that particular plant. Temperature also affects the rate of evaporation from a leaf because during dry season stomata are opened frequently forcing different vegetation in a hector inside Tarangire national park to lose about 11,400 liters of vapor a day while large trees lose 151,000 liters or 40,000 gallons of vapor in a year. Speed and rate of hydrological cycle on big water bodies is fast and large because of shape and numbers of molecules in water on the surface of a lake, sea and ocean is good for attaining boiling point without the presence of fire. Different scientific researches indicate that the presence of salty vapor in the air accelerate the rate of evaporation from a water body and enable the water vapor to hang on the sky where they are condensed to form a cloud. The cloud is formed from nuclei which are obtained during condensation whereby droplets are combined together to form a frosty cloud that hangs in Troposphere zone with different width according to their position in the sky. The Troposphere zone occupies more than 75% of the atmosphere and accumulates about 99% of all amount of vapor in the sky and it is the major source of natural forces which affect the weather on the planet because it from this zone where water is turned back to earth. It is from this zone where droplets are formed from vapor before embarking into another long and complex journey to the earth, this is what scientists call Precipitation which happens when the weight of droplets on the sky become unbearable due to gravitational force from the ground. During Precipitation a droplet with a circumference measuring up 3.01 millimeters is pulled down at the top speed of 8 meters per seconds, before reaching the ground their size are reduced to 0.5 millimeter although during heavy downpour some escape with 2.0 and 2.5 millimeters to affects leaves of different vegetations on the ground. The rate of rainfall in one area also affect growth of vegetation in different area and influence lives of humans and animals in the wild whereby different species of primate prefer tropical forests while most felids dwell in the savannah. rstanslaus@yahoo.com