THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam has confiscated into government properties several minerals valued at over 127/-owned by four businessmen. Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo gave such orders after convicting the businessmen, Noah Mmasamanga, Richard Boniface, Ally Said and Moses Mbojo, on their own plea of guilty to a charge of unauthorized possession of minerals. The magistrate also sentenced each of the accused persons to either pay 500,000/- fine or go to jail for three years in default of paying the fine in question. They paid the fine to escape the sentence. The accused persons also forfeited into government properties a Toyota Raum vehicle and a mineral weighing machine following such conviction. Before their convictions, the businessmen were facing several other economic charges. However, the accused persons decided later to enter into a plea bargaining agreement with the Directors of Public Prosecutions (DPP), with a view of pleading guilty to the charge as preferred by the latter and subsequent ending the criminal trial. The DPP accepted the request by the accused persons and decided to drop the other counts, under which they remained with only one count of unauthorized possession of minerals. Such new charge was subsequently presented in court by Senior State Attorneys Renatus Mkude and Materus Marandu on behalf of the DPP. After being read over and explained to them, the accused persons entered a “plea of guilty.” According to the new charge, on October 16, 2019 at Double View Hotel at Sinza Mapambano areas within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the accused persons were found in possession of the minerals without valid mineral rights, dealers or brokers’ license. Such minerals include 414.03 Carats of Tanzanite, eight pieces of Ruby, four pieces of Spinel, six pieces of Modovite (Volcanic Glass), three pieces of Citrine and Ruby Cabochon, all weighing 131 grams valued at 55,498.92 US dollars, equivalent to 127,689,683/68. Memorandum of facts shows that on the material day, police officers received intelligence information from a secret informer that there was plan for illegal business which was to take place at Double View Hotel at Sinza area. The police set a trap at the area, leading to the arrest of all the accused persons, who are dealing in gemstone minerals. The police officers seized the minerals and prepared a certificate of seizure, which was signed by the businessmen and other independent witnesses. Later on, the accused were taken to the police station for further legal action, whereas the recovered minerals were also taken for safe custody. During interrogation, the accused persons confessed to dealing in mineral business without having any license or permit. Before their arrest, the accused persons were intending to transact a sale and purchase deal of the said minerals which got seized and taken to the Mining Commission for evaluation, where the report revealed that all of them were valued at 127,689,683/68. Furthermore, Boniface confessed to have used a motor vehicle, a Toyota Raum, to ferry the accused persons with their minerals to the area where they were to meet a customer, but were arrested before the deal was concluded.