THE Tanzania Bible Society of Tanzania has expressed its commitment to reduce the level of illiteracy as it embarks on a project to train more than 347 adults. Through the project which caters for 20 villages, many people are now able to read and write after completing the literacy programme. Speaking after handing out certificates, Tanzania Bible Society Coordinator, Mr Frank Makala said the fresh graduates are beneficiaries of phase II of the programme funded by Finland Bible Society and an American Christian non-profit organisation, SIL International “The programme targets illiterate adults in order to address illiteracy problem, and the teaching and learning guides are in their vernacular language of Kikaguru, thus making it easy to get the context,” said Mr Makala. Mr Makala informed that at least 97 out of 120 adults completed the programme in the first phase in 2017, and that the programme is using Kikaguru and Kiswahili as mediums of instruction. He pointed out that the reason for some programme beneficiaries to fail to complete the studies is because most of the beneficiaries are pastoralists who have a tendency of shifting from one area to another while seeking for pastures for their cattle. Mr Makala said the programme gives a second chance to those who dropped out of the first programme to continue with the studies, saying the new programme will restart on May 15 after teachers complete a capacity building programme. He urged for maximum cooperation from other education stakeholders and the government to support the programme to enable those who did not go to school to get the opportunity. Dr Jackson Nyanda, a Bible Society of Tanzania Board Vice-Chairman, urged the fresh graduates to make use of the education to improve livelihoods. “Reading should not only end up in reading the Bible only, but it should continue in different educative journals, largely entrepreneurship journals,” he observed Ms Loy Mhambo, one of the programme beneficiaries, expressed gratitude to the project sponsors, noting that the programme has opened her eyes in a number of issues. “I could not take part in various social issues because I could not read and write. But I will now be able to take part in various activities,” she said. Mr Geradino Makau, another programme beneficiary, said he struggled to take part in elections because he did not know how to read and write, saying he was assisted to vote by literate friends. “I used to go to polling stations with a literate person to help me while voting. My vote was not a secret,” he said. Delivering a speech on behalf of the programme beneficiaries, Ms Joyce Michael said being able to read and write will help them to discover outdated agricultural inputs. 