YOUNG Africans target signing ahead of next season, Kakule Mughen admitted that he had made formal communication with GSM Investment Director Hersi Said about possible deal at the club. The Rayon Sports midfielder, who spoke via a telephone interview, said he was asked by Hersi to send him his video clips of which he did and that he is just waiting for the feedback. “My contract with Rayon Sports will end soon and already, I had discussion with GSM’s representative (Hersi), who requested about my video clips and I have sent him. “I like Tanzania football a lot and previously, I had trials at Simba but things did not work well. At the moment, I am still a legal player of Rayon Sports until I hear further feedback from them (Yanga),” said the DR Congo born player. He added that he will also give room to Rayon Sports management for possible contract extension such that if they fail to reach agreement, he is ready to seek green pastures in Tanzania or Kenya. GSM who are kit and merchandise suppliers of Yanga have been on the forefront bringing new players at the club like Bernard Morrison, Haruna Niyonzima and Ditram Nchimbi. They are also going to be involved in the transformation processes which the club is set to undergo shortly, as one step to enable it operate through the investment mode. In another development, Yanga midfielder Juma Mahadhi said he is eager to help his side claim the CAF Champions League (CAF CL) title in the near future. “My wish is to assist Yanga reach far in its football circles and most importantly, help them win the CAF CL, which is the biggest club honour on the continent. “The CAF CL game I remember very well for Yanga was the one we played against TP Mazambe in 2016. I usually watch that game because I had a good match and I learn many things by watching it frequently,” he said. As the top flight league remains paused, Yanga occupies third place on the table with 51 points from 27 games, three points trailing second placed Azam FC, who have maximised 54 points after 28 clashes. Simba SC sits comfortably at the summit of the log with 71 points from 28 encounters to be on course of retaining the league title for third time in a row. They are 17 points clear hence better placed to win the silverware. At the moment, all eyes and ears from sports fraternity in the country are directed to the government waiting patiently as when football leagues will resume to finish up the remaining games on the fixture.