THE government on Friday evening received a consignment of herbal medicine (Covid Organics, CVO) believed to cure Covid-19 from Madagascar. This was after President John Magufuli said recently the government would send a plane to collect it from Madagascar. It has been reported that other African countries which have received the herbal medicine include the DRC, Gabon and Equatorial Guinea. This is good news. The coronavirus pandemic has wreaked havoc on the world as almost all countries have been plagued by it. Various world leaders have called for global solidarity to fight against the pandemic, including some asking their people to pray to God so that he may help us overcome it. One of those leaders is President Magufuli, who appealed to Tanzanians to seek divine intervention. Pope Francis too has called on believers of all religions across the world to unite spiritually for a day of prayer, fasting and show acts of charity to implore God to help humanity overcome the coronavirus pandemic on May 14. There are other world leaders who are also supportive of the Higher Committee of Human Fraternity (HCHF)’s invitation to all people across the world “to lay all their differences aside and come together and assume their responsibilities against this virus, the first and true enemy of humanity in this era.” This is one of the steps various leaders have taken to fight against the pandemic besides heeding the World Health Organisation (WHO)’s recommendations on preventive measures. Various countries have taken some measures related to their experience and context to fight against the pandemic. While we acknowledge this global effort and solidarity, we encourage our health experts and researchers to research on coronavirus and its cure. President Magufuli also mentioned it on the day he was swearing in Dr Mwigulu Nchemba as Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs in Chato in Geita Region. We say this bearing in mind that this pandemic shouldn’t only be looked at as a global problem, but also a global opportunity towards more researches on contagious diseases. So, we appeal to our scientists to engage in research on pandemics and publish their findings. If we do this it means each time we are struck by a pandemic we will have plausible approaches on how to protect ourselves against it and this will be our contribution to global efforts to mitigate pandemics. According to worldmeters.info, as of yesterday by 14:10pm there were 4,043,058 coronavirus cases, 277,007 deaths and 1,403,966 patients had recovered. This means there is still a cumulative trend in the number of coronavirus cases compared to the number of those who have recovered.