A LARGE part of the 110m/- daily up-keep allowance that was paid to some legislators of the main opposition party—Chadema has been deposited back into the National Assembly bank accounts, official sources have revealed. The National Assembly Clerk, Mr Stephen Kagaigai, told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that a huge sum of money had been refunded by a majority lawmakers who did not attend the parliamentary budget proceedings over what they described as “self-isolation measures” against the novel coronavirus pandemic. “I cannot disclose the amount and the list of parliamentarians who have returned the money ... but I can certainly confirm that many have already repaid the required amount,” the clerk said. Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) ordered its representatives in the lawmaking body to go for a two-week self isolation as a precaution measure against the deadly coronavirus. But the decision was immediately faulted by National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai who termed the decision “unwarranted” and that every MP who had received per diem and was in self-isolation should immediately refund it. According to the speaker, the MPs had received between 2m/- and 3m/- for a period beginning May 1 to 17, this year. He also said that all those who had quarantined themselves must get a medical certification confirming to be Covid-19 negative, before being allowed back in the premises of the august house. However, until last Friday at least five MPs from Chadema were seen in parliamentary grounds, raising questions on whether they had refunded the money and if they also received a medical report. The MPs included Frank Mwakajoka (Tunduma), Ester Matiko (Bunda-town), Salome Makamba (Special Seats), Devotha Minja (Special Seats) and Aida Khenani (Special Seats). Assembly Clerk Mr Kagaigai said the parliament was yet to receive any medical certification from any of the MPs, but said a detailed statement from the legislature would be made public on Monday. Tunduma MP Frank Mwakajoka told the ‘Daily News’ that a section of Chadema lawmakers had already refunded the money and that the remaining MPs would also make their payment transactions anytime. Besides, he said that as people’s representatives, they had also noted that “it is unwise to retain the money that we have not worked for. This is not something that we can debate about,” he noted. But he was quick to express concern that medical reports are bound to be matters of “Doctor-patient confidentiality”. “This could be the first time a patient must demand a medical certificate ... we suggest that the Speaker finds space and reconsiders his statement considering that it may trigger unnecessary confrontations,” he said. The MPs said they were considering to also issue a formal statement to raise their concerns but in the meantime, they urged the Speaker to relax his instructions and allow parliamentarians to proceed with the remaining part of the budget sessions. Over the past 72 hours since the parliamentarians took their Covid-19 pandemic tests, the results did not come with certifications to MPs. Mbozi MP Pascal Haonga said the decision by Chadema to go for 14 days quarantine from May 1 was not for fun. He said as MPs we had agreed to also test and this was not the Speaker’s choice. On the per diem, Mr Haonga said the allowance was a legal entitlement since “we are out of our residential area.” He says the allowance is for upkeep and not required to be refunded. “However, we have resolved to surrender the money to avoid political confrontation,” he said. The Parliamentary budget session resumes on Monday and Chadema demanded that the speaker softens the condition by allowing all MPs to get access to the ongoing budget session.