MWANZA based Home Life Sports (HOLIS), has pleaded for the continued commitment towards developing and promoting volleyball in the country by organising different activities. This comes about two weeks since HOLIS was forced to cancel the third edition of the annual Mirjam East Africa Volleyball Championship due to Coronavirus threat. Mirjam East Africa event that is organised annually by HOLIS, was expected to draw teams from East African Community (EAC) at Mirongo Sports Centre in Mwanza City from June 24th to 27th this year, but now the organizers have turned focus on staging the 2021 event. HOLIS Chairman Majaliwa Mayunga told the ‘Daily News’ from Mwanza yesterday that HOLIS has committed to carry on their shoulder the works of insuring sustainability of the game development and they recently launched the Live Volleyball Talk show through their official Instagram. “HOLIS management has launched Live Volleyball Talk Show as among its initiatives to develop and promote the game agendas in the country. We have organised the live talk show through our Instagram account and its beginning was a huge success,” he said. Mayunga added that the first show was conducted in English language with main reasons to deliver the message to multinational audience. “We have started with English language because we target the multinational and local audiences, but that doesn’t mean we have ignored our local fans who might find it difficult to share with others or what is being offered. “It is just a start and we have planned many of these programmes so as to give everyone a chance to express or contribute views towards the game development,” he said. Adding, Mayunga said HOLIS has put in place amazing plan for volleyball fraternity and he is sure it will touch everyone once and benefited many. “My plea to volleyball family is to stay calm as the suitable time is yet to come. There are better arrangements ahead as I said earlier that we commit ourselves to serve volleyball,” he stressed. He said HOLIS will not sleep and will keep coming up with other tournaments this year once the situation improves.