PRESIDENT John Magufuli has assured Tanzanians of a possible Premier League return this week following drastic decrease of a number of the coronavirus victims. The motivating presidential statement released yesterday from Tanzania Lutheran Church in Chato, Geita Region, said the move to resume the Premier League and re-opnening schools and higher learning institutions came after seeing much improvement in terms of number of victims in the various centres countrywide. JPM said anytime from a week starting today he would order the resumption of the league and sports activities if the situation continues to improve. Sports have been the vital source of entertainment to all Tanzanians besides playing a crucial role in body and mental fitness. Simba, who were a few inches away from the Premier League diadem prior to the league suspension in mid-March this year, were the first to react and through the club’s Communication Officer, Haji Manara said having Premier League completed in normal way has removed his club from a bad corner. Delighted with the news, Manara said his club could be in a volatile situation if the league could be nullified like in other countries, hence the assurance of its comeback can justify their league might. “We were commanding the league race, far ahead of the rest with voluminous points. We want the league to continue and claim the title. We just want a few points to claim the title for the third time in a row,” he said. Two weeks ago, President Magufuli hinted at allowing the suspended football activities to resume after consulting his experts and advisors. The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) suspended the Mainland Premier League, among other competitions, in mid-March when the government banned public gatherings. Via the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation television, Magufuli said he might allow the resumption of the league soon, but he was waiting proper advice from his health professionals. “Truth be said, in the coming days, I am also thinking of allowing the league to resume and go on so that people can start watching their teams playing. What we only need is the best procedures to be put in place and followed,” President Magufuli said. “I understand, although people have been affected by corona, I am yet to see an athlete suffering from it. This shows that those who exercise regularly are not easily affected by the coronavirus. “If we deny them playing football, in essence, we are telling them to get coronavirus, by implications. “It will reach a time soon, I am only waiting for my health advisors word to see if the league can resume soon. “Covid-19 is a disease that will remain with us same way as TB and even Aids and we must not stop our daily activities!” Again JPM urged the Tanzanians not to panic and also stated he wouldn’t put the major towns, including Dar es Salaam, under total lockdown as some leaders have insistently asked him to do so. Dar es Salaam hosts a number of clubs like Simba SC, Yanga SC, and Kinondoni Municipal Council FC. The Kariakoo Derby, pitting long-time rivals Simba and Yanga against each other, is always held at either the National Stadium or at the Uhuru Stadium which are both located in the city. He urged people to work hard while also take necessary precautions.” The league was suspended with Simba leading with 71 points from 28 matches while Azam, Yanga and Namungo were second, third and fourth, respectively. Record champions Yanga had played 27 matches.