THE Attorney General (AG) has appealed against the High Court judgement that declares unconstitutional, the whole Section 148 (5) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), which denies bail to persons facing capital offences. The High Court of Tanzania on Monday delivered a landmark judgment and one of the most significant constitutional and human rights law decisions, declaring unconstitutional the whole Section 148 (5) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), which denies bail to persons facing capital offences. Judges Dr Benhajj Masoud, Seif Kulita and Dr Juliana Masabo ruled that the provision under the CPA, which restricts bail on murder, treason, terrorism, armed robbery, narcotic drugs and money laundering offences violates Article 13 (3) (6)(b) and 15 (1) (2) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. But the Attorney General (AG), who was the respondent in the constitutional petition lodged by Advocate Dickson Sanga, the petitioner, has decided to appeal to the Court of Appeal of Tanzania against the whole judgment given by the High Court panel. In his notice of appeal, the AG states, “take note that the appellant appeals to the Court of Appeal against the whole decision dated May 18, 2020 where the court declared that the provision of Section 148 (5) of Criminal Procedure Act violates Article 13 (3) (6)(b) and 15 (1) (2) of the Constitution.” The High Court decision is a big victory, but accused persons charged with unbailable offences will have to wait for at least 18 months before they can apply for bail, unless the Court of Appeal reverses this judgment or the government rectifies the section by putting into place procedures on bail. After having declared Section 148 (5) of CPA going against the mother law of the land, the judges of the High Court acted under Article 30(5 ) of the Constitution and granted 18 months to the AG to rectify the defect, failure of which shall render the entire section to automatically be expunged. The 18 months, they said, will not be applicable under Section 148(5) (i) in respect of armed robbery offence, as the government had been granted time in the case of Mjomba Mjomba to rectify a similar defect. However, according to the judges, nothing has been done to date. They ruled, therefore, that the said offence of armed robbery is automatically expunged from the list of the unbailable offences in the CPA as of May 18, 2020, when the judges delivered the highly awaited judgment. During hearing of the petition, Sanga was represented by upcoming lawyer, Advocate Mbuga Jonathan. He had also sought for decretory orders allowing trial courts with jurisdiction to deal with any offence to be left to deal with the issue of bail upon being properly moved by the parties to the criminal disputes. The youthful member of the bar further moved the High Court to give directives as it may deem fit to meet the ends of justice and the protection of the constitutional right of the people. The move by the lawyer came after the Chief Justice, Prof. Ibrahim Juma, proposed all offences should be bailable. In the petition, the petitioner alleged that Section 148 (5) ousts the constitutional jurisdiction of ordinary courts in administering the right to bail of an accused pending trial or appeal and also restricts the police in charge to refuse bail to suspects pending investigation. According to him, in our constitution, personal liberty as jealously guaranteed under Article 15 (1) states that every person has a right to freedom and to live as a free person.