EVERYBODY wants to become rich. Isn’t it true? Yes Indeed! But what is wrong if somebody aspires to be rich? Principally, I don’t see anything wrong in people’s aspiration to become rich. But the problem is not as to why so many people are aspiring to become rich, instead the real problem is when most of them want to become rich “overnight”. The irony is that nobody seems to have the “patience” and the “will to work” to achieve richness rightfully. But don’t you know that most great fortunes are built slowly. They are based on the principle of compound interest, to which Albert Einstein once called, “the greatest power in the universe.” In full 99 percent of cases where people become wealthy, it is over a long period of time, and it is based on slow, incremental growth as a result of compound interest. In other words this is called the ‘Magic of Compounding’. Going forward it is important to understand what we mean by ‘financial independence’ and how it can be achieved by using the most effective tool called the ‘magic of compounding’. “Financial independence” is a term generally used to describe the state of having sufficient personal wealth to live, without having to work actively for basic necessities. For financially independent people, their assets generate income that is greater than their expenses. Under these circumstances, a person is financially independent. So in simple terms we can say-suppose if your monthly expenses are $2,000 and through various means of income like interest, dividend, rent etc. you have a fixed stream of income worth about $2,200. In this scenario you would surely be termed as a financially independent person because without doing anything the available income on month-on-month basis is greater than the expenses. It does not matter how old or young someone is or how much money they have or make. If they can generate enough money to meet their needs from sources other than their primary occupation, then they have achieved financial independence. Age is potentially irrelevant with respect to financial independence. If somebody is 25 years old and his/ her expenses are only $100 per month against the assets that generate $101 or more per month, then this person has achieved financial independence, and he/ she is now free to do things that one enjoys without having to worry as much. On the other hand, there is a person who is 50 years old and earns a million dollars per month but still has expenses above a million dollars every month. This person is not financially independent because he/she still has to generate the differential shortfall each month just to stay even. However, in both of the above stated examples we need to take into consideration the effects of inflation. As we all know that ‘inflation’ is a silent killer of our money power. So compounding investment earnings is what can make even small investments become large given the enough time. How does It Work? The money you save (either in a savings account, invested into a unit trust/ mutual fund scheme, fixed deposit or in individual stocks) earns income in the form of – interest, dividend or capital appreciation. Then you earn interest on the money you originally save, plus on the interest you’ve accumulated. As your savings grow, you earn interest on a bigger and bigger pool of money. Every penny that you save, properly invested and protected has the ability to grow each year. As your money grows, it compounds on itself, and grows even more. According to one study it takes the average millionaire 22 years to accumulate a million dollars from the time he gets serious about his financial life. Most wealthy people get rich slowly, by gradually increasing their earning ability, saving more and more from their income, and investing it carefully and intelligently so that it grows and compounds over the years. Therefore, stop aspiring to become rich ‘overnight’ instead plan to achieve “financial independence” slowly and steadily. And never forget the power of ‘compounding’. Also remember that you have to start early in order to get the best compounding benefits. Have you already started, if not – what are you waiting for? Mind it; this is the only key to become rich. Cheers!!!