PROMINENT businessman, Lucas Mallya and five other accused persons have petitioned to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to end the 31bn/- economic and tax evasion trial they are facing. This was revealed by Advocate Hudson Ndusyepo, for the businessman, at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam when the trial came up for mention before Senior Resident Magistrate in Charge Godfrey Isaya. He explained that the accused persons have written letters to the DPP and the TRA, expressing their willingness to settle the criminal and tax liabilities through the newly introduced legal system of plea bargaining agreement. “We will continue to follow up the matter and inform the court accordingly,” the seasoned defence counsel told the court. Earlier, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, briefed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. The trial attorney sought adjournment of the trial to another mention date. The magistrate granted the prosecution’s request and adjourned the case to May 20, 2020. Already three accused persons have benefited through such arrangement. They are Emmanuel Vicent, Prokolini Shayo and Nyasulu Kyapi, who opted to plead guilty to some of the charges they were facing after entering into an agreement with the DPP and were subsequently discharged from the trial. The development forced the prosecution to prepare new charges for the remaining accused. In the new charges, Mallya, a Director with Jaluma General Supplies Limited, is charged alongside businessmen Prochesi Shayo, Geofrey Urio and Happy Mwamugunda, a businesswoman as well as Nelson Kahangwa and Tunsubilege Mateni, both accountants. Other charges against them include leading organised crime, forgery, being in possession of stamps printed without authority, occasioning loss to a specified authority, importation of goods without being registered, distribution of excisable goods without fixing stamps and money laundering. It is alleged that on diverse dates between January 1, 2015 and January 7, 2020 in Dar es Salaam and others places within the United Republic of Tanzania, all six accused persons intentionally organised a criminal racket. The prosecution alleged that on January 7, 2020 at Chang’ombe A in Temeke District in the city, Mallya was found in possession of 93 rolls of the stamps valued at 80,516,000/- printed without the authority of the Commissioner. Between January 1, 2016 and December 31, 2019 in Dar es Salaam by reasons of his willful acts of making counterfeit stamps, Mallya allegedly caused the government of Tanzania to suffer pecuniary loss of 15,241,075,169/-and within the same period fraudulently evaded payment of the sum as tax to TRA. The Director of Jaluma General Supplies Limited was charged with money laundering in that within the same period in the city, he allegedly acquired the sum of 15bn/-, while he knew or ought to have known that the amount was proceeds of a predicate offence of fraudulent tax evasion. Between January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2019, with intent to evade tax, Mwamugunda, the Director with Happy Imports Associates, allegedly imported 413 cartons of the said unregistered excisable goods, thereby evading payment of 9,584,401,393/-as excise duty and Value Added Tax (VAT), payable to TRA. It is alleged that within the same period, by reasons of her willful acts of importing and distributing the goods without being licensed and upon affixing electronic counterfeit stamps, Mwamugunda caused the government of Tanzania to suffer pecuniary loss of the said 9.5bn/-. The businesswoman was also charged with money laundering in that she acquired 9,584,401,393/-, while knowing that the amount was proceeds of predicate offence of fraudulent evasion of tax.