AS the world wages a spirited battle against the ravaging Covid-19, the top leader of the Roman Catholic Church in the World, Pope Francis, has called upon believers across the globe to place aside their religious differences and hold special prayers on May 14, to seek divine intervention in the fight against the pandemic. The Pope’s call is in support of the proposal put forward this week by the Higher Committee of Human Fraternity (HCHF) that called  on religious leaders and faithful around the world to a day of fasting, prayers and supplications for the good of all humanity next Thursday for an end to the  pandemic. The Committee’s call invites people around the world to lay all their differences aside and come together and assume their responsibilities against the virus, the first and true enemy of humanity in this era. In his support for the Committee’s call, Pope Francis said: “Since prayer is a universal value, I welcome the proposal of the Higher Committee for Human Fraternity that believers of all religions should unite spiritually on May 14th for a day of prayer, fasting and works of charity to implore God to help humanity overcome the Coronavirus pandemic.” He insisted: “Remember: May 14, all believers together, believers of different traditions, to pray, fast, and do works of charity.” Judge Mohamed Abdel Salam, Secretary-General of the Committee (HCHF) said: “The overwhelming response with this call for prayer from leaders and peoples around the world is a true testament to human solidarity and grants us hope in achieving global unity based on human fraternity principles for the safety, security and health of all mankind.” He also noted that seeing all believers come together in prayers and supplications for an end to this pandemic is dream come true of a universal human unity, which is much needed now more than ever. “We will implore God Almighty for his grace and mercy and trust that He will respond to the hopes of millions of faithful asking to be saved from this deadly pandemic,” he continued. US-based Rabbi Bruce Lustig, Senior Rabbi at Washington Hebrew Congregation and member of the Committee (HCHF) added: “Just as all of us have seen how the global pandemic has taken lives and livelihoods, we have also witnessed it reveal some of the best qualities in humankind.” Monsignor Yoannis Lahzi Gaid, Personal Secretary of His Holiness Pope Francis and member of the Committee (HCHF), said: “As we await a cure that would spare humanity from this deadly pandemic, our only hope is that God Almighty will save the millions suffering around the world, and help scientists and researchers to succeed in finding the eagerly-awaited cure.” As world leaders insist on the need to pray it is undeniably that divine intervention is highly needed to contain the spread of the pandemic as its powers can never be underestimated. Only mid last month President John was the first leader in the world to direct the nation to hold a three-day national prayer to seek God’s mercy in taming the spreading of the deadly disease. On Thursday, Americans honoured the National Day of Prayer and used the occasion for special prayers against the Covid-19. The event at the White House was dominated by prayers from religious leaders for an end to the coronavirus. The Committee (HCHF) is an independent body of religious leaders, educational scholars and cultural figures from across the world.