KMC Rwandese midfielder, Jean Baptiste ‘Miggy’ Mugiraneza has challenged youngsters to work hard and observe advices they get form their mentors if they want to prosper in their career. The former Rwanda international, who also played for Kigali giants APR for nine years in two stints, insisted that youngster hoping to make it as professional footballers that surrounding themselves with good mentors is ‘very important’ as far as choices they make in their careers are concerned. Mugiraneza also previously played for Azam FC and Kenya’s most successful club Gor Mahia as well as Rwanda Premier League’s SC Kiyovu. He is currently in Kigali and will only return to Tanzania until the coronavirus pandemic is managed and the situation returns back to normalcy. And, according to Times Sport of Rwanda, Mugiraneza said that he owed his football career to hard work and inspiring mentors he has had over the years. “Talent alone is never enough in football,” said the veteran midfielder. “One needs to work hard and have good mentors to help them in other aspects of the game such as character and attitude.” He added: “Football fame could be toxic to young players if not well-guided, that is why mentors are very important. The game is now beyond passion– even our Rwandan football, it is a profession; a serious profession. So we need to raise professional footballers.” Mugiraneza, one of the most decorated players in Rwanda football and one of the best midfielders of his generation, won the 2010 Cecafa Kagame Cup with APR, the club’s last of their three regional titles as well as six league titles and five Peace Cups. The versatile holding midfielder has also made 68 appearances with the national team Amavubi. However, he has not been called-up since 2017. At the height of his career, in February 2009, Miggy was linked with a move to French Ligue 1 side Stade Rennais but the transfer did not materialise. During his two years with Gor Mahia, between 2016 and 2018, Mugiraneza helped the club to win two Kenya Premier League titles.