KAGERA Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti has welcomed both local and foreign investors to invest in the region and assured them of government support. He said Kagera Region was strategically situated due to its proximity to three East African Community (EAC) nations: Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda. Speaking during his tour of two projects in Bukoba Municipal Council implemented by the Community Solutions for Africa's Development (Cosad) and Kibira Plaza on Thursday he said: "The government welcomes both local and foreign investors in construction of five star hotels and tour companies.” The recent upgrade of Burigi-Chato, Rumanyika-Karagwe and Ibanda-Kyerwa national parks and the newly rehabilitated Mv Victoria were suitable investment attractions," he said. Cosad Tanzania Managing Director, Smart Baitani explained to the RC that the project involved the construction of a four-storey modern hospital which would have modern medical facilities, including tele-medicine, CT-Scan, RMI and X-ray services and 22 beds two of which would be VIP. "The health of residents is central to the development of a nation since a healthy population lives longer and is more productive and contributing more to the national economy. Women and children carry a heavy burden mostly from preventive diseases. Rural women, in particular, have continued suffering debilitating poverty occasioned by retrogressive cultural practices and the politics of marginalisation," he said. Mr Baaitani said the decision for investment was made with his wife, Dr Jessica Baaitaini, who was based in the USA, following a call made by President John Magufuli for the diaspora to return home and invest. "We thank President Magufuli for his bold action to improve social services, including health, education and the infrastructure. This is an example to be emulated and we fully support him. The project is estimated to cost about 4bn/-," he remarked. He explained that for the last 10 years Cosad Tanzania had been supporting the government through preventive care services and by constructing community libraries in Muleba, Bukoba Rural and Bukoba Municipal Council. Kibira Plaza Managing Director Mwesiga Kibira explained that "Bukoba Centre for Arts"  would be a multipurpose facility providing conference halls, offices and cultural exchange programmes.