THE Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children has warned over misuses of some medicines, as preventive and curative measures against coronavirus, saying neither vaccine nor treatment has been made available so far. A statement issued yesterday said that there was misinformation that Azithromycin, Aspirin, Prednisolone, Zinc, Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) and some ARVs are among the drugs for preventing and treating Covid-19. “The Ministry would like to inform the public that there is no treatment for Covid-19 so far. All drugs should be used as per physicians’ instructions," read the statement issued by the Chief Medical Officer, Prof Abel Makubi. "Medicine like Azithromycin is used for treating various diseases, including the lung fever that is derived from bacteria and not the virus," explained Prof Makubi. According to the CMO, aspirin is used for pain killing, fever as well as for cardiac patients, under the doctor’s special prescription, while prednisiolone is for skin diseases and pneumonia, and ARVs is for HIV/AIDS victims. Prof Makubi warned that misuses of the medicines might cause serious side effects, including medicine resistance; Which could result in failure in treating the bacterial diseases. He said that some medicines have huge side effects, citing an example that aspirin can cause ulcers and bleeding, while prednisiolone can lead to diabetes and swellings of some body parts. “Some medicines like Ascorbic Acid and Zinc are nutritional which are available in various fruits in the country. They are only used as a substitute when the patient is unable to consume the fruits at the recommended level,” said Prof Makubi. He added: “If these medicines were for immune or Covid 19 treatment, then they would already be used in China, Europe and America where they are manufactured,". Prof Makubi advised the citizens to ignore wrong information, instead, they should seek right information from the ministry. The Chief Medical Officer stressed that so far there is no cure for Covid-19 but there are some drugs which can help the patient who is at a certain level, under the doctor’s advice. All people who experience Covid-19 symptoms should inform relevant authorities by freely phoning number 199, he urged. Prof Makubi also said the Pharmacy Council should also thoroughly supervise non-randomly sales of the medicines in an effort to prevent drug resistance to the Tanzanians. According to Prof Makubi, the government also directed all its organs, including the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), Ministry’s natural therapy department as well as Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS) to collectively give education and directives on how best to use the natural therapies. The ministry also responded to rumors that Covid-19 dead bodies are secretly buried by directing health officers as well as Regional and District medical officers to make sure that the families are well involved in burial processes. 