MAASAI Community members have been advised to avoid their traditional way of greeting each other, at least for now, to avoid contracting coronavirus. They have been advised that greeting by shaking hands and hugging could increase the spread of the deadly Covid-19 pandemic in their communities and lead to misery among them in the district. Longido Member of Parliament, Dr Stephen Kiruswa, said Maasai greeting was a huge sign of respect among community members, but it should be stopped until the pandemic was over. He called upon Maasai elders to share information with their people and believed it would bring about positive outcomes. He was speaking at a function in which he presented a machine that would be used for premature babies, a steam machine for sanitising clothes and sunglasses for disabled people. The MP also offered facemasks, sanitisers and soap – all worth more than 20m/-. Dr Kiruswa said he would be working with the Longido District Commissioner (DC)’s office and district council executives to raise public awareness in every ward in his constituency so that people could conduct avoid contracting the virus. He said it was high time for the Maasai to engage more in cattle rearing and fight against Covid-19. He said the government could not work alone. Speaking on the donation, Dr Kiruswa said it came from him and his friends who were touched by the misery women experienced when they gave birth to premature babies. As for the coronavirus facilities, he said it was to support the government so that the virus did not spread any longer. Longido District Commissioner Frank Mwaisumbe thanked Dr Kiruswa for the support, saying it would be of great help to the people and the government. He called for other stakeholders to follow suit. He called upon leaders at every stage in the district to be proactive and raise public awareness on Covid-19, its threat to life and the way they could protect themselves against contracting it. District Chief Medical Officer, Dr Justin Munis, said the donation would be used as intended.