THE number of women using postpartum intrauterine devices in the country has increased to 13 per cent, up from nearly one per cent in 2015, an indication that the devices are increasingly becoming the best option for effective birth spacing and reducing maternal mortality. National Postpartum Intrauterine Device (PPIUD), Project Coordinator, Prof Projest Muganyizi said at least 95 percent of the 10,000 women who were reached during the pilot project have recommended the devices for an effective family planning. “It is important to understand that every pregnancy is wanted, but unintended pregnancies comes with unplanned challenges…integration of modern family planning helps prevent such unintended pregnancies,” he said. He explained that the IUDs are strategically placed into women reproductive organs and have been safe, or causing no harm to users. The devices that are now available in six regions; Mwanza, Arusha, Dodoma, Pwani, Dar es Salaam and Mbeya are freely accessible in government health units. Dr Hemed Makuani, Assistant Director of Child and Reproductive Health, Ministry of Health, Community Development Gender, Elderly and Children said at least 3,000 health care workers were trained to effectively implement the project. He went on to explain that family planning was essential in one’s healthy child, and that the government has set an enabling environment for an effective family planning. According to the Director, 97 per cent of maternal deaths in health centres were caused by poor services. “But we’re noticing positive progress in the implementation of PPIUD, now covering at least 8 per cent of all family planning schemes in the country,” he said. Dr Anita Makins, the Project Director of the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics FIGO's Postpartum Intrauterine Device (PPIUD), told a delegate here that the same project has been implemented in Siri Lanka, Nepal, Kenya, Bangladesh and India. She explained that the devices were essentially given to non-pregnant women but it involved a series of procedures that become easy should it be commissioned immediately after birth. Ms Martina Matayo, a midwife from Mbeya attending the meeting told reporters that the device is purely small and non– hormone, “meaning they cause no harm or effect to users. It can also be inserted once in 10 to 12 years, preventing you from unwanted pregnancy.” The health care worker said that the only problem facing the full implementation of the project is limited public awareness.