SERENGETI Breweries Limited (SBL) has expressed commitment to work with the government in providing public awareness in creating awareness about the novel coronavirus in the country. The SBL Corporate Relations Director, John Wanyancha said recently that SBL appreciates the fact that the government has strengthened its collaboration with the private sector to scale up the acquisition of essential materials for use by the general public and health workers in managing the spread of Covid-19 in the country. “We understand the importance of playing our role as much as we can; to increase public awareness in order to combat this infectious disease that poses an unpredictable danger to mankind, a cause that we are committed to,” he said. Recently, SBL partnered with the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children in creating public awareness about the scourge through the provision and distribution of educative materials to the public across the country. In this endeavour, the brewer offered to help the government distribute the posters and fliers with health tips that facilitate the raising of public awareness and education about the pandemic to all regions in Tanzania free of charge. He said SBL is among an array of stakeholders that have waged a frontal attack on the war against the novel coronavirus by supporting the government through the ministry of health in providing an assortment of items and materials that are geared towards preventing the spread of the pandemic. Last month, the brewer boosted the effort to fight the spread of Covid-19 in the country by donating 1,250 litres of hand-sanitizers. The donation was handed over to the health ministry in Dar es Salaam. According to Wanyancha, the company’s gesture was in line with its corporate social responsibility policy of contributing to the society’s social wellbeing. He adds that the donation of hand-sanitizers will go a long way in ensuring that those who receive them will continue to maintain high hygienic standards to keep the lethal pandemic at bay. The corporate relations director also notes that apart from the donation to the Ministry, the brewer has also provided sanitizers and masks to its field and factory staff as well as its distributors across the country to keep them safe from contracting the virus. SBL has about 800 employees and works with dozens of distributors in the country.