THERE is a famous Turkish proverb which states–“the devil takes a hand in what is done in haste”. This proverb quite aptly applies to investment related decisions taken by an ordinary investor during his/ her life time. Often it is observed that sometimes we take investment decisions without doing proper due diligence or homework, which invariably is required to be done on our part. Do you have any experience of ever taking a loan from any bank? For most of us, probably the answer would be “yes” and don’t we know how difficult the whole process of taking the loan was. The lender calls for submission of numerous related and unrelated documents from the borrower and finally it turns out to be a lengthy and tedious process, before the actual loan is sanctioned and disbursement takes place. Have we ever thought why it happens that way? The answer is simple because the lenders [whosoever it may be] part with their money for utilisation by the borrower. Hence if proper due diligence is not done at the time of lending, there are good chances that the borrower will never pay and finally the loan will get termed as “bad debt”, which directly hurts the lender but not the borrower per say. That being the case, can we apply the same principle of due diligence relating to money lending by banks, while investing our hard earned money elsewhere? This is warranted because the moment we sign on the dotted lines, we are required to pay the investable amount and from that point onwards we lose control on our money. This is where the principle of– “Think, Select and then Decide to Invest” comes into force. The first element of this principle is - ‘think’, which warrants on our part to ensure that any decision on investment matter has to first undergo a due thoughtful process before it is finally exercised/executed. What it basically means is, that, don’t take your investment decisions merely on hearsay but make a conscious decision after considering all pros and cons of that decision. Let us assume you have come across a very good investment opportunity but with a condition that your money will remain locked for 5 years. On the other hand, you have an obligation to pay and thus would need this money after 2 years. In case you decide to invest into the so called attractive investment opportunity without giving due consideration to your forthcoming liabilities/ obligations, what basically you have done is that you have taken a decision which has been arrived without having undergone the necessary due diligence process. At the end, the whole purpose of tapping this attractive investment opportunity will get defeated when at some point in time you would discover that the money is not available when needed [i.e. after 2 years]. And this is when your so called most attractive investment decision will get transformed into the most remorseful decision. The reason is known and obvious, as the whole process was hushed up, and was finalised without giving due consideration to one of the most important elements i.e. “think” before your act. The next element in this category is to “select” the right investment opportunity/instrument. You would agree that each one of us in our individual capacity differs on many parameters like–age, family background, education, income level etc. Depending on these parameters we are required to set our own financial goals in life. Moreover remember that most investment decisions carry an element of risk and again there are people who are “risk averse” and some others “risk takers”. Therefore we can’t select a product just by seeing it or by knowing that so and so person has invested into it. Thus, in order to select the right investment product, there is a need to match one’s profile with the corresponding features/ objectives of the product on offer. If your urge is to earn comparatively better returns then one of the best options for you is to invest into “equities”. But while doing so, please don’t ignore the risk element [i.e. exercise ‘think’ function to comprehend the risk]. Conversely, if you are a retired person and want a steady stream of income from your investments, then the best choice for you is to invest majority of your money into the “fixed income securities”. Under this category, the returns may be moderate, but on the other hand the risk is also minimal. Therefore, you need to be cautious while selecting a product in order to ensure that underlying objectives of the chosen investment option are in consonance with your set financial goals in life and not the other way round. Moreover, to facilitate selection of the right product, one can even seek help from external financial experts such as - investment advisors, stock brokers, banking officials etc. There is nothing wrong to hire their services and pay a small fee than doing it yourself and ending up with a wrong decision ultimately. Remember, investment decisions are very important, if rightly taken then will lead to wealth creation; else will result in wealth erosion. And unanimously nobody wants their wealth to be eroded. So the conclusion remains the same – do your homework before you decide to invest. Cheers!!!