WATCH out; oh, sorry, son or daughter of God; read out! Overwhelming attention is now focused on; on, on; come on, something known as…you know what. Being a super coward, I am too cowardly to mention the six-letter word that brave (non-coward) people utter a million times or so per day these days. I have a stupid feeling that the word may be the second one that babies utter after “mama” (instead of “baba”) after being born nowadays. I am dead sure (though being sure of anything when I am dead not only sounds dead wrong, but gigantically idiotic) that you think that I am about to narrate something to do with a disease that has turned most of us, into harmless facial “ninjas”. But, at this early stage, I am swearing with 100 per cent (not even a half-percentage wrong) that it isn’t what I have in my mind. For the record, the mind is a rent-free tenant in a brain that is in turn a rent paying-less tenant in a head that, whenever I view it in a mirror, it reminds me of a boyhood-era boy and village-mate called Rutantukana (don’t insult me). He described my head as a middle-aged XXXXX (long live fenesi), the reason being that I emerged the champion in a contest over winning the heart (plus the soul and brain) of a girl of slightly above average beauty in our home village, whose name I am withholding for security, moral, tribal and spiritual reasons. That happened at the age at which a boy smiled like a baby zebra whenever he was about to criss-cross, along a path, with a girl who made his heart operate as furiously as an ancient, non-SGR locomotive engine. But once he (not me - a sure lie) the two came pretty close, the boy’s intentions froze as miraculously as sugar dissolves in a cup of hot water. I’m repeating, once, not twice more, that I haven’t set out, at this stage, to tell you about what you think I have in mind. What I actually have in mind is something that I have the right, as a citizen of a primary citizen of a certain country, and secondary citizen of a continent that hosts a species of human creatures who soul musician James Brown reminded us that are black and proud. The right I am alluding to is the fact that Ruta embarrassed me irreparably, as a revenge over my emerging victorious (long live dear self) in winning the girl’s heart. But in the manner of defeated armies sometimes regrouping and fighting back, Ruta leaked to the girl in question, a secret that influenced her to sack me as her lover. He disclosed that my feet, which I often imprisoned in dirty pairs of socks locked in cheap pairs of shoes, were rent-free guest houses of tiny insects called jiggers (long live funza?). I discounted the rumours, but since I declined to expose my feet for inspection to determine the truth or falsehood of the story, and stressing that Ruta was just being envious, she decided to embrace the rumour. She argued, and justifiably (actually scientifically) so, that, if I truly loved her, I would freely and indeed happily expose my feet to her for inspection, to kill the rumours. For sure, my feet were acutely jigger-harassed; prompting me to suspect that I had been bewitched, since other boys’ feet weren’t as delicious food for the tiny, cursed insects as mine had been. The situation was so serious that, when I became the owner of a number of years that make someone culturally, as opposed to constitutionally entitled to marry, by pairing off with someone known as the better half (as opposed to worst quarter?), a critical problem arose. Whenever I sent out fillers over my intention of becoming a two-in-one set up, there was no way (let alone a road) I could attract the attention of some young women in my home village as well as Kagera Region at large. I got a series of rejections due to my history as a jigger-harassed person. It’s because Satan-driven individuals, as opposed to God-propelled people, were too itching with the urge to embarrass me, to confine the “funza” problem to my home village. They broadcast it beyond it, and there wasn’t much I could do to kill it and send it to hell. I subsequently turned spiritual by addressing prayers to the Almighty Creator, to whom I addressed prayers. The prayers were answered, and, delightfully, my jigger-harassed past vanished. We are now grappling with a fearsome disease whose name I hear being pronounced about two million times per day. It reminds me, on a mild scale, but over which I get quite shaken up, of the jiggers-related terrorism, to which I have privately coined the nick-name “Funza-1963”, to denote the year when it was most acute. wkaigarula@yahoo.com, 0713-450-633