AMID the ongoing global battle against the deadly corona virus, Tanzanians have a reason to smile following the sharp decrease of the infant mortality rate. Current statistics show that the rate has dropped from 25 per 100 live births for the year 2015/16 to seven per 1,000 live birth in March, this year. Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, said yesterday that the country had made a significant step due to the efforts applied by the government in improving health services and construction of dispensaries, health centres and hospitals across the country. She was speaking after receiving Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), posters, brochures and other educational materials from Absa Bank Tanzania Ltd and United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). The materials were donated to boost the battle against Covid-19. The minister said the health sector had been strengthened in all areas and that it had been made easy for wananchi to access the required health services, medicines, equipment and medical supplies. “In a particular way, I applaud and thank all midwives in Tanzania for their courage and resilience in continuing to provide midwifery services towards promoting the health of mothers and infants,’’she noted, adding: ”As the world battles Covid- 19, babies are born every day and our health service providers are always on duty. They are working tirelessly on the front line in maternity wards, risking their own lives and wellbeing to save the lives of women and new-borns.’’ On May 5, the World observes International Day of the Midwife. The day is special to recognise the vital role these healthcare professionals have in preventing maternal and newborn deaths and empowering women to make the best choices for themselves and their babies. The theme for International Day of Midwife 2020 is Midwives with women: Celebrate, demonstrate, mobilise, unite– our time is NOW! According to the 2010 Tanzania Demographic Health Survey (TDHS), the country in the past few years has experienced a substantial reduction in child mortality rates. Between 1992 and 1996, about 88 of every 1,000 new-born died before their first birthday, and 137 of every 1,000 died before age 5. The TDHS found the average infant mortality rate had dropped to 51 per 1,000 —and the under-5 mortality rate to 81—in the five years preceding the survey. The decrease can be in part attributed to improved breastfeeding practices and high immunisation coverage. However, one in nine children still die before their fifth birthday. Malaria, acute respiratory disease and diarrhea persist as the most common childhood illnesses. The minister assured the public that amid the coronavirus battle, other services continue to operate as usual in all health centres, including antenatal care and children’s clinic, testing of various ailments and surgeries. “I would also like to express my gratitude to stakeholders who have provided these equipment’s; I ask others to continue to support the government in combating the disease,” she said. For his part, the Permanent Secretary in the ministry Prof. Mabula Mchembe, said the donated PPE would improve service delivery in specialised treatment centres in the country. “I want to assure all stakeholders who have provided this equipment that they will be used in providing a range of services and treatment for patients in our treatment centres. We want to make sure health care workers who are in the frontline remain safe and healthy,” said Prof. Mchembe. Handing over the PPE, Absa Bank Tanzania Ltd, Director for Human Resources, Mr Patrick Foya, said they have donated equipment worth 20 million shillings. They include gloves, face masks and hand sanitizers.