A FORM-SIX student at Benjamin Mkapa High School, Asmin Mtai plans to venture into farming while she is waiting to join higher education. She has set eyes on a project in agribusiness to grab opportunities in the rapidly rising sub-sector and make a good chemistry of literacy from books and life skills. Despite her busy schedule, Asmin still finds time to pursue agribusiness short course offered by the Malembo Farms agribusiness consulting firm in Dar es Salaam. “My expectation from this practical-oriented training on agribusiness is to get skills that will help me create my own job instead of depending on being employed,” she says. Asmin is upbeat that engaging in agribusiness would make her overcome the challenges of unemployment when she completes higher education. She says she believes that as a youth, using her energy and skills in agriculture would not only benefit the country but also help change mindset of her fellow youth towards agriculture.  “I want become a role model for my fellow youth who see agriculture as something not for educated people. I will create jobs for my fellow youth. Youth should understand that there is opportunity in agriculture” she explains. She suggests that agricultural stakeholders spread agribusiness education to schools across the country in order to have more youth in agriculture sector, and thus get rid of waiting to get employed. Asmin is among several other students who have opted to join the course at the Malembo Farm. Coming from different schools in Dar es Salaam, students use their extra time to attend the training. The Managing Director of the Malembo Farms agribusiness consulting firm, Mr Malembo Lucas, says they initiated the programme to prepare and make students have a mindset that agriculture is an employment. “We give skills and right information about agriculture and its whole value chain,” Mr Lucas notes. “We see it very important to re-introduce agriculture subject in schools to enable students get extra skills while in school, which will help them after completing school.” Having more youth who engage in agriculture would earn them and raise economy of not only their families but also the nation. “In line with this, it would help in addressing unemployment challenge to this group,” he says. Statistics show that each year 900,000 young Tanzanians enter the job market that is generating only 50,000 to 60,000 new jobs. The Malembo Farm targets to change the public mindset about agriculture using the youth, including students.  The organization has selected the youth basing on the fact that the group makes a huge population of labour force. “Our main focus is to provide right education and modern agricultural techniques in order to produce many modern farmers who follow professional farming techniques for boosting production in agricultural sector,” he says. The programme has started with Advanced-Level and university students, and plans are underway to bring it down to primary school pupils. “Our programme continues because we have aimed at reaching out to many students in Dar es Salaam region and others,” he explains. The training is conducted on weekends and on weekdays when schools are closed and students spend about two hours a day for the training. During the training students are taken through technical knowhow on growing vegetables and fruits for commercial purposes, poultry farming as well as entrepreneurship education. “At large extent our training is practical-oriented in order to build capacity among the students so that they get actual real picture of agriculture,” he argues.