FOR many years local contractors in the country have been complaining about dominance of foreign contractors saying that they are not considered enough when it comes to big construction tenders. Lack of enough capital and facilities to undertake big construction projects often force them out of competition with foreign companies. But to tackle this, the government has been sensitizing about the importance of joint ventures among local contractors to help them acquire enough capital and facilities to implement big projects. To enable local contractors compete with foreign companies, Contractors Registration Board (CRB), has been always there to support them with different business skills and knowledge on how they can grow and compete with their fellows from outside the country. CRB tells local contractors that complaints would not help them instead they must work hard to ensure they have all modern facilities and technologies that will enable them compete with international companies. In a recent three-day training of business management skills for local contractors organized by CRB for northern zones contractors, CRB Registrar Rhoben Nkori told them that in order for them to survive in the industry they must be creative and work diligently to attract more clients. The training which attracted over 96 contractors from Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Manyara, Tanga, Dodoma, Singida and Mwanza is a continuation of training by CRB to equip local contractors to improve their standards and develop their companies. Among the topic covered were Business skills, entrepreneurship and business life cycle, marketing matters, business plans, strategizing and business model. Nkori told local contractors that without improvement, creativity and joint ventures when implementing construction sites local contractors will remain observers while foreign companies secure big construction tenders. He said construction is a business like any other business so contractors must value their profession by observing standards they have signed in their contract with their customers. The moderator of the recent training, Professor Prosper Ngowi, said there were a lot to be done for local contractors to compete with the international companies adding that complains would not help anyone. Ngowi told them that competence and completion of work within agreed time is something to consider every day in order to attract more clients and many contractors fails because they don’t complete within agreed time. According to Professor Ngowi, the competition within construction industry is increasing day to day so he urged local practitioners to improve their standards and be innovative in their daily activities if they want to remain in the market. He told them that to be local contractor was not a criterion to get a government tender. The only way to compete with foreign companies in tenders competition is to improve their standards when implementing construction sites they get from government and private institutions. “We must speak the truth in order to change and improve our companies because no one will come and give you construction sites only because you are local contractor, your competence and good records is the only thing that will lift you up,” he said. He urged contractors to prepare working plan at least of five years so that someone can understand easily where the company is heading something which will help the successor of the company if anything happen to the owner. He said market is an important component for any company to survive so he advised them to set some amount for advertisement by producing some calendars, banners, caps, emblems and other products that have the company profile and communications. “ When you attend meeting like this take opportunity to advertise yourself and network with others, you must carry something to advertise your company because don’t underestimate the power of networking because if you don’t advertise no one will know where you are and what you are doing,” he said. About marketing their companies, Ngowi advised them to use social media properly to advertise their activities because that is where they can find news clients. He said local contractors have been complaining about the lack of enough capital to enable them implement big projects but if they go for joint ventures they can do wonders and compete with the internationals. Ngowi revealed the impediment for local companies to go for joint ventures as selfishness among them because some of them who tried to join ended in court everyone complaining to have the right to own big shares. “If you join hands you can compete with foreign big companies but what I see here is selfishness among us when it comes to who is to get what after the completion of the projects. If you get profit you are supposed to meet in a nice hotel and enjoy what you got but some of you have been ending in court that is very bad,” he said. He mentioned other impediments for local companies to grow as poor management because many big companies when they want to offer construction tenders for a certain company one of the things they need to know is if there are good management and board of directors. “Some of us run a company in a one man show model and we put fake board of directors, you can find that father, mother, children and uncles are in the board of directors something that cannot work…With this system of management some companies especially foreign companies can’t offer you a tender because they need everything to be straight,” he narrated. “Even to some of our banks when you apply for a loan they would ask the chairperson of your board to sign so if you don’t have a chairperson you will fail to get a loan so we need to keep everything open and straight to enable our companies grow and not entertaining a one man show model,” he said. He said for the company to run smoothly everything must go on even if the director or his deputy was unavailable for any reason to avoid one man show model. He advised local contractors to equip their subordinates so that they can fill the gaps when they are not present to complete projects within agreed time and at the same quality.