BECAUSE of the sweat trickling down her old face, the old eye glasses kept slipping from her face, and with unchallenged determination, she kept pushing them back into position. She walked with purpose towards a house inside a rundown fence, and observing her from a distance, it was obvious that she was on a very important mission, a mission that to her, it spelled life and death. Fortunately, or unfortunately, she found the inhabitant of the house, a middle aged woman, outside in the shed, washing her husband’s clothes, with her three-month old baby strapped on her back. The old woman with the sweaty face is a midwife/nurse at the local hospital in Singida, and she had very serious news to tell the woman under the shed. She did not wait to be invited to a seat, she pulled a nearby stool and slumped on it, and without wasting any precious time, she went straight to the point. “Parenting is a very tough job, that is why not everyone can become one, others force to be parents, but they are not capable of raising children,” she fumed. She told the bewildered woman that it was obvious that she became a parent by mistake, because as she pretended to be one, her teenage daughter was busy seeking sexual education information from the hospital. According to her, it was obvious that the daughter was already engaged in sexual affairs…why else would she ask about contraceptives if she was not in need of them? “If a person talks incessantly about rain, it is obvious he has been rained on before!” she concluded. During a workshop organized by Youth Education Through Sports Tanzania for journalists in Sumbawanga recently, it was revealed that most adolescents dread visiting health facilities because of several reasons, one of them being branded ‘prostitutes’ by their elders. Is-Haq Rajab Mponda, a Youth Development Officer who was one of the facilitators, said that most adolescents in Africa, Tanzania included, fear visiting health facilities for Sexual Reproductive Health (SRH) services because, according to them, there was no friendly environment. The scenario of the old nurse with the sweaty face repeats itself in most communities, because according to Mr Mponda, most Tanzanians live in close communities, therefore an adolescent seeking SRH services is likely to meet a familiar face, who in turn brand them with sometimes unpalatable names. He says that most parents and guardians fail to communicate with their adolescent children on SRH, which leaves them confused and end up relying on information from their peers, and when they gain the courage to seek for the services from local health facilities, they are sometimes met with hostilities. “It becomes easier to look for a solution to protect adolescents from unsafe and unprotected sex instead of trying to convince ourselves that they are too young and they are not doing it, because these children, in most cases, are engaged in unprotected sex,” he says. He says that many girls in Tanzania are coerced into unwanted sex or marriage, putting them at risk of unwanted pregnancies, unsafe abortions, sexually transmitted infections, including HIV, and dangerous childbirth, yet too many young people face barriers to reproductive health information and care. Apart from addressing the issue of unfriendly SRH services for adolescents, the workshop which is part of a project implemented by YES TZ in partnership with Plan International also seeks to tackle the issue of early marriage and pregnancies. Sarah Mrema, a health service provider in Tegeta on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam says that many young people in need of reproductive health services may either shy away from seeking the services or be denied access to sexual and reproductive health services for a variety of reasons. She says that existing health providers may be biased and may not feel comfortable serving sexually active youth, saying the youth on the other hand may not feel comfortable accessing existing services because the way the services are set up do not meet their needs. Ms Mrema says that it is for this reason that Tanzania needs to invest in sexual and reproductive health services specifically tailored for the adolescent youth. “Investment in youth friendly sexual and reproductive health services will not only help in reducing teenage pregnancy and HIV infection rates among young people in Tanzania, but it will also contribute in improving maternal and newborn health as well as reducing the need for procuring unsafe abortions,” she says. Cresencia Mapunda, a registered nurse at the Sokoine Health centre in Singida Municipal Council says that most adolescents engage in sexual activities without knowing the dangers they expose themselves to, which includes early pregnancy and HIV/Aids. She says that it is important to educate youths on the use of protection once they involve themselves in sexual activities, because most of them are not aware of when they are supposed to start using family planning methods and protection. “Dealing with adolescent girls, first and foremost there is need to create a friendly atmosphere for them which will attract them to these services, because they feel uncomfortable and may not open up when you mix them with adults or other groups, they need to feel that they can trust you,” she says. She says that in most African settings, once a teenager is discovered to be engaged in sexual activities, she might be branded a prostitute, and things are not better at health facilities when they gain the courage to go and seek for advice, that is why health facilities need to set aside adolescent and youth friendly reproductive health services. “Health workers should be sensitive to the emerging feelings of their adolescent clients and support them to talk openly and honestly in the clinic setting,” she adds. In a study of 70 low and middle income countries, almost all the countries reported that only 10 per cent or fewer of all adolescent women had visited a health facility in the past 12 months and were informed about family planning. The study reveals that even when young people are able to access services, they may feel embarrassed, face stigma on sexual matters, or have concerns about judgmental providers. Delivering quality services that are tailored to young people may improve service use, adherence to contraceptive methods, and increase the likelihood of obtaining ongoing care. “Therefore, understanding how to best deliver services to young people and evaluating the impact of service delivery is essential to improving youth SRH outcomes,” says Machrina Kambo, a Nurse Officer at the Sokoine Health Centre in Singida Municipal Council. “Not surprisingly, a key factor that influences adolescents’ health care-seeking behaviour is whether or not the act of seeking health care could get them into trouble with their parents or guardians,” she says.