TANZANIA’s industrialization agenda has received fresh impetus, with more foreign investors expressing interests to tap into available investment opportunities. Tanzania Ambassador to Malaysia, Dr Ramadhani Dau revealed recently that a Malaysia-based company, Wilmar, has shown interest of investing in Tanzania’s oil processing industry. He said that Tanzania High Commission in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia has managed to convince the Malaysian company to come and invest in the oil processing industry. “The company has agreed to invest in sunflower oil processing and distribution, a move that will make Tanzania a hub for the product,” Dr Dau said as he highlighted major feats recorded by the embassy in the past five years. Dr Dau also said that his office held talks with Mega Dynamic Company, which has also agreed to invest in the construction sector by building 6,000 housing units in Dodoma and Mwanza Regions. “The company will also invest in textile, meat and fish processing industries in Tanzania,” the envoy added. He noted that the Malaysian firm has already opened an office in Dar es Salaam, and that plans are underway to visit Tanzania next month to meet with various officials as part of investment procedures. Mr Dau further said that another company from Thailand, Capital Foods International has shown interest of investing in fish processing factories. “This company will invest in three fish processing factories in Zanzibar, Coast, and southern Regions of Lindi and Mtwara,” he said. He added that the Indonesian government through Exim Bank has also agreed to finance the construction of Zanzibar Port Jetty and a container terminal, a project expected to cost 200 million US dollars. The envoy further said that Tanzania has also secured a market for meat in Malaysia, whereby 400 tonnes of meat are expected to be exported to the Asian nation every month. “Tanzania has also secured a market for its maize, and the Malaysian based company will buy 20,000 tonnes of the produce every month,” Dr Dau said. He revealed that Tanzania has been offered free promotion of its tourism attractions by Malaysian based airline –Lion Air Group through inflight entertainment. “This company owns more than 300 aircrafts which ply the Asian nation and some countries outside the continent... plans are also underway for the airline to introduce direct flights from Jakarta to Mwanza and Zanzibar,” he said.