KURASINI Heat are the new men’s Regional Basketball League (RBA) champions; crowned after seeing off giants JKT with 3-1 playoff win in the fourth match at Harbours court in Dar es Salaam. It was after the fourth playoff game when Kurasini Heat confirmed their maiden RBA title after a hard earned 64-61 win in the fiercely contested game. It was their third consecutive win in the four playoff games they played against JKT who looked favourites. Thus, Kurasini Heat have grabbed the throne from the last season’s winners Vijana City Bull whose campaign this time ended at the quarter final stage. The ex-champions Vijana were knocked out 2-1 in the quarterfinals by Army Basketball Club (ABC). Prior to the third win, Kurasini recorded 54-44 in the second play off and that added to 78-77 win in their third play-off while JKT won 64-57 in one of the four games of a play off. Both teams had displayed quality in this competition showing dominance against their opponents stage after stage. JKT were among the favourites to win the crown, after winning all of the group stage, best of eight and semis playoff games prior to their elimination. They met Kurasini who showed quality and improvement in each team and game they confronted. In the semis stage, JKT knocked off Oilers by 3-0. Moreover, Don Bosco Lioness have revived hopes to claim women title after they levelled the scoreboard to 2-2 against JKT Stars on Thursday. Both JKT Stars and DB Lioness have pocketed two wins each. JKT were the first to register the victory following their 55-51 win in the first game before DB Lioness levelled the score in the second game with 72-57 win. On the third encounter JKT Stars won again 51-45 before DB Lioness levelled in the fourth game with a 71-57 victory. Lioness’s victory has extended the play off to the fifth game which will decide who deserve the title after the elimination of the last year winners, Vijana Queens. Vijana Queens were knocked out in this year’s competition at the quarterfinals stage following a huge 3-0 loss to JKT Stars.