PLANS are afoot for the Dodoma -based Tanzania Chamber for Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) to establish entrepreneurship club centre (ECC) in all high learning institutions and vocational training colleges in the region. The constructive scheme to be implemented through TCCIA’s Tanzania Youth Membership Club (TYMC) target to impart the mentioned learning institutions with practical- based entrepreneurship and life skills. According to Regional Coordinator for TCCIA in Dodoma, Idd Senge, the chamber was in a round table dialogue with leaders of numerous varsities and colleges in the region in readiness to kick- start the vital programme. He expressed that the envisaged initiative intends to supplement efforts by the government on industrial economy by ensuring the educated youth in Tanzania are fully and effectively participating in diverse entrepreneurship and other economic activities. Mr Senge said it was frustrating that training curriculum in universities and colleges has little to impart the students to get entrepreneurship skills and enterprise, a gap which needed to be bridged immediately. “As per our expectations and plans, the club centres to be initiated will be manned by potential trainers who will stand professionally to impart the beneficiary students with the much-needed entrepreneurship knowledge,” he informed. As part of preliminary stages and in readiness to implement the programme to its intended full scope, at least 42 students from numerous varsities and colleges from across the country are currently undergoing a six-week internship training at the Dodomabased TCCIA office. The students drawn from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and Institute of Rural Development Planning (IRDP), are using the training in part to fulfill requirements of their colleges’ internship field studies. At the national level, the programme (TYMC) was launched some years ago and it is being implemented in cooperation with the University of Dar es Salaam’s Business School (UDBS), the Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship Development (IMED) and key vocational training colleges. According to the nature of its establishment, the chamber was due to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Muhimbili College of Health and Allied Science and Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) in a bid to roll -out the programme more wider and professionally. Moreover, at the national level, the country -wide programme will also base on skill development among the youth in the informal sector, through the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) scheme.