NMB Bank Plc has reemphasized its stance that it is still extending loans remittance period as directed by the Bank of Tanzania (BoT). This was said recently during the NMB Business Clubs meeting held in Dar es Salaam recently. The NMB bank Head of Business Banking, Alex Mgeni said the bank realised the challenging business environment traders and other customers have been going through during the Covid-19, and hence decided to ease remittance by relaxing payback period. He said the forum is also another spot that sells the bank’s products, which include NMB pre-paid card, NMB credit card, NMB raise a house, NMB BancAssurance and NMB Mkononi. Mr Mgeni said the effects of the pandemic were still affecting the business community, hence BoT thought it wise to intervene and allow financial institutions to extend loan recovery periods to their customers. “Most of our customers, including club members who are traders and stable in business are important to us, hence it was necessary to meet them over the BoT directive that we extend loans’ payback periods,” he said. He said with the directive of the BoT, about 80 per cent of their customers and business community members have been paying back their loans with ease, a clue that business is in the right direction. The NMB bank Chief Financial Officer, Benedict Baragomwa said the financial institution was stable despite the coronavirus crisis, adding that their success has been as a result of their customers, including the club members. “Your bank is stable and ranks high in any competition in business, and the success is entirely because of your commitments to work together with us,” he said. Commenting, NMB Relationship Manager-Large Corporate, Christopher Mgani hailed the club members, especially on how they managed to go through the crisis, saying he will constantly team with their branches countrywide and see how to address the customer’s challenges. “As a result of the crisis, it was necessary to meet, share experiences and chart out new ways together businesswise and forge ahead,” he said.