THE Nigerian High Commissioner to the United Republic of Tanzania, Ambassador (Dr) Sahabi Isa Gada has lauded cordial relations that exist between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the United Republic of Tanzania tracing it back to 1960s, when they formed an alliance to liberate some African countries from colonial domination more especially those under apartheid regimes. The outgoing Ambassador in an interview with the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam, recently noted that Tanzania, which he described as a fountain of peace, deserves praise for guarding and promoting Kiswahili language ( African lingua franca ) that unites over 120 tribes in the country and indeed the East African region. That common language he observed is indeed a uniting factor that brings peace, unity and prosperity not only to Tanzania, but to the whole region. The envoy said he had cause to travel by road to a number of cities in Tanzania and observed that Kiswahili is spoken by any one he came across even in the villages along the road. This is a gift from God for a country that was colonized by the Germans and later by the British but managed to make their local language supreme. It is really a miracle. He said, it is very interesting to observe that Tanzanians irrespective of their location, tribe or local language are very proud of Kiswahili as their main language and have every right to be proud. In an apparent quotation of Nelson Mandela that “If you talk to a man in the language he understands, that goes to his head. If you talk to him in his language, that goes to his heart.” Hence the reason for their unity. Tanzania and Nigeria have enjoyed cordial diplomatic relations since the two countries attained independence in 1961 and 1960 respectively, thereafter, Nigeria High Commission was established in Dar es Salaam in 1962 almost immediately after its independence while Tanzania High Commission was established in Nigeria in 1972. Since then, the envoy observed that relationship between the two countries is waxing stronger. In its effort to assist sister African countries, the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar signed an MOU where Nigeria provides Zanzibar with Technical Aid Volunteers to teach science subjects in their Secondary Schools. The program has now been extended to cover higher institutions. He observed that frequent request by Zanzibar for more is a clear indication that the program is appreciated. The envoy seized the opportunity to thank the Volunteers for being good ambassadors of Nigeria. Nigeria provides such intervention in many countries across Africa. He added that Tanzanian military have continued to enjoy training facilities including the highest military institutions in Nigeria vice versa. He noted that, since Tanzania embarked on the implementation of Foreign Direct Investment strategy, a number of Nigerian investors open businesses in Tanzania. The soft spoken ambassador further said the peace and prosperity that exist in the country has made investors from Nigeria citing Alhaji Aluko Dangote to invest heavily in Tanzania with the biggest cement factory in East Africa situated in Mtwara, providing the much needed revenue and employment to its citizens. He also cited the presence of other Nigerian investments such as the United Bank for Africa, Guarantee Trust Bank, Sahara Petroliam products, Breeztech and a host of others in smaller settings. He added that Nigeria export textiles, books, electrical gadgets, leather products while it imports sisal, tea, coffee, spices from Tanzania. He informed that another big Nigerian investor the Ibru Group indicated their interest to invest in the Tanzanian Deep Sea Fishing industry and have since engaged the Deep Sea Fishing Authority in serious discussions to that effect. The Ibru Group have been in fishing business since 1956 and have therefore the capacity to perform creditably. Apart from fishing, the Ibrus are into Shipping, Airline, Banking, Petroliam, Publishing, Agriculture, Merchandizing, Real Estate, Oil Exploration, Hotels & Tourism. Elaborating further, Dr Gada said that sometime last year, some Nigerian investors made contact with a Tanzanian meat processing company” Chobo Meat Processing Company” situated in Mwanza with a view to exporting its product into Nigeria and also jointly establish a sister company in Nigeria. The Mission is determined to revive the discussion on that subject with a view to realize it. His Excellency Dr Sahabi Isa Gada concluded by appealing to Tanzanian in Nigeria that the Nigerian High Commission is always willing to guide Tanzanians wishing to invest in Nigeria. Thank you and God bless.