CCM Presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli has asked Arusha residents to shun tribal-linked politics, and instead focus on development issues. Addressing hundreds of supporters who flocked Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium, Dr Magufuli said he has been informed of tribal based campaigns taking place in the region, and asked the public to ignore people who focus on divisive politics. He said judging leaders on ethnical grounds will not help Arusha and Tanzania in general to move forward, and instead there will be no cooperation in implementing development programmes. “Mwalimu Julius Nyerere liberated this country from colonialists and united us together to become one strong nation. He managed to bring 120 tribes together, therefore we need to embrace that spirit of working together as one nation,” he noted. He added: “Arusha is getting out of control, we are getting lost because of tribalism. I urge you to avoid ethnic groups.” Dr Magufuli said his intention is to turn Arusha into California of Tanzania, but the goal will not be achieved if the residents continue embracing tribalism, which may result into violence and disunity among wananchi. “There could be no development without peace, we need peace and unity among us to be able to implement development programmes,” he said. He said Arusha is the headquarters of the East African Community and a centre of tourism in the country, therefore there must be peace and tranquility. “We must maintain peace and protect all national values, there could be no tourism business in a place where people are divided on tribal basis, this must not be entertained,” he noted. Moreover, Dr Magufuli reiterated that if re-elected in the forthcoming General Election, he will continue to serve all Tanzanians diligently without considering their tribes, colour or political parties. “I promise to be the president of all Tanzanians, I will serve all of you as required, there is no room for tribalism, racial segregation or political differences in my mind, I believe in serving Tanzanians regardless of their backgrounds,” he said. He asked Arusha residents to elect him and all other candidates on CCM tickets, including Mr Mrisho Gambo who is contesting for Arusha Urban constituency. He said for the past five years, his government experienced difficulties in reaching wananchi in the area because they elected a person who failed to become a link between the government and wananchi. He said his office decided to set up a strategy by appointing Mr Gambo to become the area Regional Commissioner so that he can also assume the responsibilities of a member of parliament in Arusha urban. Dr Magufuli stated categorically that Mr Gambo was one of the RCs who helped him to move businesses forward in the past five years. “I appointed Mr Gambo to become the RC so that he could help me to move the region forward, there was no connection between my government and the MP, therefore today, I would like to thank Mr Gambo for helping me bring changes in this region,” he said. The incumbent Head of State also refuted reports that he kicked Mr Gambo from office, saying the Arusha MP candidate asked for permission to vie for the seat, which he accepted and appointed another person to lead the region. “Mr Gambo asked me for permission to contest for the MP post in Arusha Urban, he said the constituency needs a strong person like him to move businesses forward, I accepted because I believe in his performance, so I urge you to ignore the rumors that I sacked him,” he noted. On the new promises, Dr Magufuli promised to address 10 major challenges facing Arusha residents immediately after election. He mentioned them as connecting electricity to remaining villages in the region, supplying water to all parts of Arusha, improve roads and bridges in the region, and addressing entrepreneur’s problems in the region. Others include surveying land to avoid disputes, build a modern stand, connect REA electricity to all people who reside in the outskirt of Arusha city, address the problem of high water bills, which are contrary to the actual amount of water used by wananchi, high tariff paid to the council for collecting garbage, and corruption among some police officers. Dr Magufuli also promised to continue with the implementation of various projects, including the 520bn/- water project which is expected to end water problems in Arusha and some parts of Kilimanjaro region.