SAVE for some isolated violent incidents, Zanzibaris went to partial voting here on Wednesday peacefully, ahead of the General Election today. ACT-Wazalendo presidential candidate Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad was arrested early Wednesday morning, as he attempted to cast his vote at Mtopepo polling station against the law. The law enforcement agents managed to disperse crowds of rowdy youth as well as arresting a handful of others trying to disrupt the early voting as prescribed under the electoral law. According to the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC), partial voting involved solely election returning officers, assistant returning officers, polling centres’ supervisors, police officers, ZEC commissioners, ZEC executives and other eligible voters who will be fully involved in the election activities today. Urban West Regional Police Commander (RPC) Awadh Juma Haji confirmed the arrest of Mr Hamad and other opposition members, who were involved in criminal activities. He could not confirm the total number of arrests, saying: “We are still controlling the streets and making arrests against the culprits. There have been incidents of few crooks putting stone blockages on the roads, burning tires and hurling stones to the police.” The defence and security forces were busy patrolling the city streets, most of which remained empty for the entire day. The common bustling Darajani area was almost empty with almost all shops closed. ZEC Chairman Retired Chief Justice (CJ) Hamid Mahmoud Hamid told reporters here on Monday that the electoral body had completed all the requisite election preparations to enable smooth voting by all eligible voters. He said all the required items for voting had been procured and distributed to all polling stations in Unguja and Pemba, explaining that on Election Day (today), all voting stations will open for voting, with each post accommodating an average of 450 voters. All polling centres are scheduled to open at 7:00am and close at 4:00pm to provide opportunity for all 566,352 eligible voters to cast their votes. ZEC has allocated four days—October 28 through October 31—for vote counting and result announcement. The candidates for the presidency, representation and councillor seats had 46 days of campaigning, from September 11 to October27. However, the major rival parties -- Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) and ACT-Wazalendo --concluded their campaigns in Unguja on Sunday.