THE Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal by former employee with Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Miriam Maro, who had been demanding a balance of over 86m/- gratuity paid as per Voluntary Agreement, signed before her retirement in public services. Justices Stella Mugasha, Sivangilwa Mwangesi and Jacobs Mwambegele ruled against Ms Maro, the appellant, after holding that the appeal she lodged against the BoT, the respondent, to oppose findings of the High Court lacked merits. “We find and hold that the decision of the High Court was, on evidence, sound at law. We find nowhere to legally fault it. This appeal was filed with no scintilla of merit. It stands dismissed,” they declared. During hearing of the appeal, the counsel for the appellant, Ms Mariam Mcharo, had contended that the High Court Judge erred in law and in fact in holding that the Voluntary Agreement entered into between the Bank of Tanzania and JUWATA Headquarters ceased to operate on September 13, 1996. In their judgment, however, the justices of the appeals court pointed out that as evident in the contents of the Voluntary Agreement itself, under clause 4 (a), the parties had agreed that the life span of the Agreement would be 24 months reckoned from January 01, 1991. However, they observed, in terms of clause 4 (c), the parties agreed that the agreement could go beyond the 24 months prescribed if no party sought any amendment to it upon a three months' notice to the other party in terms of clause 4 (b). According to the justices, it is abundantly clear in the record of appeal that the respondent notified the appellant through a circular letter to TUICO BoT Branch dated September 13, 1996, thus, they were not able to comprehend the appellant's complaint to the effect that the notice was served on a wrong party. “We do not think the appellant has any iota of justification in this complaint. Having scanned through the Agreement we have not seen anywhere to justify the allegation, that it was signed by JUWATA National Office and not by JUWATA BoT Branch as the appellant would have us believe,” they said. In the circumstances, like the High Court, they justices were of the view that the notice was served on a proper party and they do not think the appellant was prejudiced by the same being served on TUICO BoT Branch office. They went on observing that the Voluntary Agreement ceased to exist on September 13, 1996 and it was, therefore, not in existence on May 15, 1997 when the appellant retired, thus, her gratuity was therefore not supposed to be calculated in terms of the Voluntary Agreement. The justices were of the considered view that the respondent acted well within the letter of the Voluntary Agreement and it is the law that parties are bound by the terms of the agreement they freely enter into. The justices agreed with the counsel for the respondent, Dosca Mutabuzi, that the contention by the appellant to the effect that the purpose of any notice under the Voluntary Agreement of any intended amendments so that the parties may negotiate and come to an agreement was a misconception. “If anything, it comes out clearly from interpretation of clause 4 (b) and (c) of the Agreement that a party intends to amend or vary its terms must notify the other party of its intentions. We do not read anywhere in the Agreement providing for negotiations as Ms. Mcharo would have us believe,” they said. The appeal has its genesis in an agreement between the Respondent, the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) and Jumuiya ya Wafanyakazi Tanzania; a trade union commonly known by its acronym JUWATA, executed on November 14, 1990. The Agreement (Voluntary Agreement) titled "Mkataba wa Hiari baina ya Jumuiya ya Wafanyakazi Tanzania (JUWATA) na Benki Kuu ya Tanzania (BOT) Kuhusu Hali Bora za Kazi na Mishahara" stipulated for payment of gratuity to the retiring employees of the Respondent. The appellant, Miriam Maro, was an employee of the respondent from December 4, 1969 until May 15, 1997 when she retired. Upon retirement, she was paid gratuity of 22,871,640/-. Later, the appellant claimed that, in accord with the Agreement, she ought to have been paid gratuity at 109,736,222/75. On the other hand, the respondent elected that at that time the Voluntary Agreement was not in force. It was at that point in time when the appellant instituted a suit in the High Court, claiming the balance of 86,864,582/75, interest thereon and costs of the suit.