IN simple explanation a ritual can be defined as a sequence of activities involving gestures, words, and objects, performed in an isolated place, and performed according to set arrangement, within our neighbourhoods it can be performed by community or traditional leaders who do it on behalf of their communities. Psychologists say rituals are performed for different purposes such as making prayers, ceremony, anointment and others. On their side scientists say from thousands of years ago termites sing and dance special ritualized dance as they build mounds in the middle of the savannah where aardvark and aardwolf demolishes walls of these unique structure every night. Scientists say termites are found in 3,000 species which are found in different ecologies of the world including African Savannah where about 1,000 species dwell and thrive in national parks such as Serengeti, Ruaha, Mikumi, Selous, Sadaani and others. From the underground the presence of these social insects in Mkomazi, Tarangire or Katavi national park can be represented by mounds which tower the savannah in different heights, with a small body which measures between 4 and 15 millimeters the first ancestor of these wonderful creatures is believed to evolve more than four thousand years ago. From prehistorical to modern time, different evidences show that termites play a big role in changing topography of different ecosystems in the savannah where mounds stand between 10 to 15 meters tall. A 26 years research in different national parks in Africa have indicated that among social insects, termites build their mounds in different and unique way which involve the use of more than 15 kilograms of soil. Scientists believe it is this time and energy consuming job which enables the structure to withstand effects of different weather throughout a year. From the big streets of major cities to angles of remote located village you may see structures of different designs made by humans who use different skills such as architectures designing, in the Savannah termites do not have time for this kind of presentation and arguments so they opted for a traditional but powerful way of building their houses. If you happen to visit Shinyanga, Mwanza and Tabora you will surprise to see farmers working on their farms while singing some traditional songs. From Magu, Bariadi, Maswa to Nzega while singing inspirational songs as they assemble to work together in one farm before and during planting season. Unlike villagers of Sangamwalugesha, termites use their strong heads and powerful jaws to play a special ritualized dance disseminate special synchronized messages to all workers who are involved in this important work. In rhythmical movements these insects use their mandibles exchange this coordinated information from one member to another from one step to another. Different scientific researches indicate these actions take place when the insects are busy building the wall of the mound and this is the main reason of this action of shaking their heads in rhythmical move is called ritual by some researchers, this is a chemical embracement which enables each member use special liquid to pass information to each other. The liquid which is involved in this ritual is saliva which is produced from water which each member drinks, scientists say during this ritualized action, termites make a hanging stream which is capable of carrying a big amount of water which is mixed with soil that is used to build the mound. History shows that our forefathers used special drum beats to pass information to villagers on their side scientists say inside a mound to trigger the ritualized action one termite hits its head on the ground then the coded information is passed from one member to another in chemical form, this is done when the insects kiss each other while using their antenna to exchange information. Most termite’s species have no eyes but some of them have compound eyes, in all species the antenna are used to detect levels of temperature inside the mound and direction of wind. This is done when the antennas collect moistures from the air and pass the information through olfactory receptors which then pass the information to brain for analysis and decision making. Through chemical decoded information termites are able to identify each other and this is to say each member carries a chemical identity card which is believed to be made from source of food. Scientists say the insects to pass information about attacks from enemies, also termites use chemical to pass information about a new source of food. Scientists say snooping each other is a common practice among colonies of termites in the savannah, to maintain distance between one mound to another everyday strong soldiers are sent in different direction to look out for signs of a new mound and when they found invaders a war erupt until the winner is established. Scientists say at time of construction of the mound, a special drum beat is used to command the termite workers to get out and collect soil and this action can be repeated when the mound is demolished by aardvark or aardwolf who live by eating termites. Due to different natural factors such as wind, rain and heat termites work very hard against time and if necessary each member is ready to die for interest of the whole colony. Termites have clear knowledge of different seasons, before and after rain they always work together to rebuild their mound while during dry season when heat and wind affect the walls of the mound, these insects work together to repair all affected parts. This is done when one soldier found the damaged part then through ritualized drum beat he send the coded message to other members of the colony who bring special mud for rebuilding the affected part. This is a special molten material which is made when a labrum works together with powerful mandible to grind dung, grass, soil and water to mix them with saliva to get special cement which is used to build the mound. Using what is called collective mind, termite workers dedicate all their energy and time to build 15 centimeters width of the wall. Termites live and through division of labor they are able to work together and this is what caused some scientists to call them super organisms because by working together they are capable of making changes on environment in the savannah. When building the mound, termites use special architectural design which enables them to build strong walls, tunnels which connect different chambers of the mound, also they may decide to create special openings which are used as doors and windows to take air in and out to create a conducive temperature inside the structure according to season and time. During construction of the mound, chambers are designed and created for different requirements, one big room is set in a special location for the queen to lay eggs while to protect the whole colony against infectious diseases one chamber is set aside a grave where all dead bodies of the members of colony are put to rest. While working together, more than 1,000 termites are capable to rebuild a wall within 15 minutes, a 26 years research in different ecosystems in Africa have indicated that this kind of activity is repeated throughout a year according to season and needs because some mounds are used by millions of generations who pass this tradition time to time from millions of years ago. Scientists believe the perfection of their work comes from feelings of patriotism which every member has toward others and the colony, this is expressed by every member who work tirelessly for the benefit of the whole group including the queen waits for workers to bring food for her, as the solders are ready to die for other members of the colony to live because when the colony comes under attack some soldiers die after pressing their bodies together to block a passage to the mound. Scientists say this is the oldest culture on Earth because the first generation of modern termites is believed to evolve about 100 million years ago, scientists believe that from 800 to 500 years ago termites developed unique skills of building strong mounds because researchers have found structures dating back to those days, measuring between 3.5 to 6 meters tall and these ancient structures are found in different national parks across Africa and some of them have been in use from more than 796 years ago. Researchers say some of these ancient mounds were abandoned by a generation which dwelled in the savannah about 766 years ago but it was occupied by another generation which evolved about 675 years ago, scientists say the ancient termites were very strong with ability of building stronger and taller mounds than the modern generations. rstanslaus@yahoo.com