PERSONS with partial vision have been urged to heed the advice of health experts to avoid adverse effects, including blindness. The advice was given on Thursday by Moshi District Commissioner (DC) Alhaj Mwangi Aboubakar Kundya on the occasion of marking World Sight Day held at the Hindu Mandal grounds in Moshi Municipal Council, Kilimanjaro Region. “I am concerned about some persons with partial vision who have been advised by ophthalmologists, but haven’t turned out to continue with their treatment,” he said, adding that such persons faced the danger of losing their vision as a result of negligence. “Partial vision is treatable. Our problem is that we ignore what health experts advise us. My advice is that we should accept and follow the advice given by them to avoid adverse effects due to the fact that vision is of profound importance to human beings.” Earlier, Kilimanjaro Regional Eye Care Coordinator (REC), Dr Japhet Boniface, said many persons with partial vision didn’t go to hospital, including those diagnosed with cataracts. “In August this year, for example, 898 patients were checked, 92 of them were diagnosed with cataracts, but almost 50 per cent of those diagnosed with cataracts didn’t continue with treatment. When they are asked why they don’t come back they give you different excuses, some of them saying that they were very busy,” he said. Dr Boniface reported an increase in the number of patients seeking help with eye problems, saying the number had been rising every year. “For example, in 2018 a total of 601 persons were checked at Mawenzi Regional Referral Hospital and at other health centres n Kilimanjaro Region, but the number raised to 1,550 in 2019,” he said. World Sight Day is an annual day of awareness held on the second Thursday of October to focus on global attention on blindness and vision impairment. This year World Sight Day was marked October 8 with the theme ‘Hope In Sight’. One billion people across the world have preventable vision impairment. Reduced or partial vision can have major and long-lasting effects on all aspects of life, including daily personal activities, interacting with the community, school and work opportunities and the ability to access public services. Reduced eyesight can be caused by several factors, including diseases like diabetes and trachoma, trauma to the eyes or conditions such as refractive error, cataracts, agerelated macular degeneration or glaucoma. The majority of people with vision impairment are over the age of 50 years. However, vision loss can affect the people of all ages.