THE CEOs (Chief Executives Officers) Luxury Retreat Golf Day has now been pushed to later November this year. The annual Sea Cliff Resort and Spa Golf Club of Zanzibar event that was due to tee off at the nine holes course on November 21st has been pushed to November 28th at same course. According to Sea Cliff Golf Club manager, Elias Soka, the preparations for the one-day event are almost at the final stage and the course is reportedly ready for the competition. Soka said the change of the date is due to several reasons, but all it is destined to make the event a huge success. It is one of the club’s prestigious tournaments that bring together CEOs and diplomats golfers from around the African countries. “It gives us great pleasure to announce that the CEO Golf Day 2020 will now be played on November 28th 2020 at Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Zanzibar, the home to first and only championship golf course on the Island. Soka has also taken opportunity to welcome all companies to advertise their brand during this event by sponsoring. “We have exclusive sponsorship opportunities available at the event, the door is open for all,” he added. According to Soka, the luxury retreat golf day is open for men’s and ladies golfers. The organisers said that the 18 holes stable ford tournament has already attracted sponsorship from Sea Cliff Resort & Spa of Zanzibar, ZMMI Wines & Spirits, Sea Cliff Court Hotel & Luxury Apartments. Soka noted that Auric Air, Cape Town Fish Market and Johnnie Walker are latest sponsors, who have joined and they expect more to join. The golf manager said door for those wished to take place is also open to register. He invites golfers from Zanzibar, Tanzania Mainland and all over the world to come forward and register for the event whose entry fee is 80 US dollar. The amount caters for competition fee, golf cart, practice and prize giving dinner. Among other reasons, Soka said that the tournament also aims to boost the country’s tourism sector. He noted that since its introduction of the event in Zanzibar in 2015, the club has done a good job in promoting tourism in the Isles.