On Thursday, Tanzania joined other countries across the world to mark International Day of Older Persons (IDOP) celebrated each year on October 1. IDOP is an important day because it reminds us of the responsibility of the government and young persons to older persons in need of help and support. We say this because there is interdependence among human beings for older persons need young persons as young persons need them. Looking after persons has been passed on from generations to generations and has to go on. This is so because we are born to live and as we live we grow older. Thus, each young person is potentially an older person. Another thing is that older persons have served the nation in various ways and capacities and have reached a stage they too need help and support because their strength is diminishing. We encourage this culture to continue in our country because it shows how humane we are to care for each other in times of need. A few years ago older persons in some regions, especially those who because of economic hardships had red eyes and rough skin, used to be killed over superstitious beliefs. Some were beaten up or stoned to death or buried alive. This means some young persons perceived older persons as a threat to them and wondered why they should live, forgetting that they too would grow older. This has almost disappeared and if it is still practised it is done in secret, thanks to improved protections of citizens and their properties. We now experience peace and security even if we live with older persons in our households. According to the UN’s latest projections, Tanzania’s current population is 60,173,829 and life expectancy is estimated at 65.46 years. Tanzania has also one of the highest birth rates in the world and more than 44 per cent of the population is under the age of 15 and the total fertility rate is 5.01 children born per woman. Looking at the life expectancy of 65.46 years, it means there is an increase in the quality of life, thanks to improved nutrition, health services, standards of living and low mortality rates in general. If we go by these figures, there is an increase in the number of older persons and we cannot afford to live without them. With all this in mind, it suffices to say that IDOP reminds us of the responsibility we have to older persons as individuals and as a nation. On the one hand, as on various occasions government officials have reiterated and as President John Magufuli and CCM Presidential candidate said recently while campaigning in Tunduma District in Songwe Region, older persons need moral and material support for what they have done to us and to the nation. That is why we find reasons to appeal to the government to continue seeking better ways of addressing the plight of older persons to improve their quality of life.