AP P A R E N T L Y there is nothing that is completely immune from changes, not even science, as it has been proven beyond reasonable doubt that it also has a tendency of evolving over time, and so are markets. Markets are ever dynamic, and if there is any difficulty in this realm is to project how market will respond one day ahead. One Ugandan economist while on his mission to explain his country’s monetary policy transition from regime interest rate to floating, on insisting how liberalized an economy is, he highlighted that, “… not even Professor Mutebile (Governor of Ugandan Central Bank) can tell what tomorrow’s interest rate will be”. In 2017, Tanzania pigeon peas’ export slumped to 51,174 tonnes from 144,541 tonnes the previous year. Major reason behind this turn of events was a quantitative import restriction that was unilaterally imposed by India – major consumer of pulses in the world. To some, this was the end of era, the pigeon pea industry had to vanish or else people had to start eating it, as one politician put it. Lo and behold, the 2019 exports records proved many of them wrong, as they show that we were able to sell 122,292 tonnes, beating many years’ per formance even before the ban. In the past ten years, Cashewnuts evolved as a cash crop that could replace cotton and sisal as a formidable foreign income earner thanks to its un equalled level of global demand and the so called ‘stable market’. And then, policy makers came in, some of them edified the subsector by supporting its productivity and others streamlined trading model only aiming at making sure that a small holder farmer gets the deserved pie. Well, unseen by many, global demand slumped dras tically leading to a decline of local price from above 3,300 Shillings per kilo in the year 2017 to around 2,800/- in 2019. A subsector that employs nearly 700,000 farmers was once on its knees as it faced the wrath
			of market uncertainty it never foresee. In a nutshell, in a liberalized economy, market is the ever changing phenomenon. Whether you are an entrepreneur, policy maker or an ardent observer, it is immaterial to delve in to reasons behind these turnarounds, because many of them may be beyond your reach anyway. While one can aptly predict the level of demand by monitoring population growth, competitors or weather forecast, it is highly unlikely that you will grasp what politicians will decide tomorrow to win people votes. WHO anticipated in 2014 that doing business with EU might turn in to being so cumbersome just because British politicians have decided to hearken their voters’ urge to exit the economic block for preserving their Sterling, control immigrants and conserve their pride as the vanquisher of historical world wars? What to do then? Taking a country as whole, bilateral agreements with a leading market is a very important thing. One cannot afford to ignore a country like China which takes in a lot of our sesame or India which is currently the irreplaceable destination of our major pulses crops. These agreements protect the supplier from the waves of global competition while assuring an importer of exist ing product even if some other consumers emerge. From an entrepreneurial point of view, it gets even harder. This is largely because as opposed to some other man ufactured goods, agricultural products have an inherent be haviour of perishability. You can hardly imagine how this can cause a headache to a businessperson until your 1000 tonnes of beans in your warehouse in Dar es Salaam, are attacked by weevils or 10 containers of avocados are stranded at Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) just because flights have again been suspended because of a second wave of Coronavirus that has badly hit the European countries. Swahili-ties were never wrong when they said, “The pot’s secret is only privy to the cup that fetches the water”, and so it does okay not understanding this scenario. Nevertheless, much as one may not be able to reclaim the burnt building, he can reduce the fires loss by extinguishing the remaining part of it. In this case, a business has to invest so heavily on storage facilities. One envoy was reminiscing
			to me on the Canadian agro companies, as he attributed their ability to weather the Indian market storms in 2017 to their modern storage facilities, “They can store the crops up to four years”, he whispered in my ears. So it’s a matter of choice, whether to prepare earlier or walk with blind optimism, but in any case no one is shielded from market unpredictability 