ALL is set for the ‘Twende Butiama’ 2020 Cycling race whose official flag off will be conducted at Msasani in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. The race that involve over 150 riders is organised by Twende Butiama Club and will be flagged off by one of Mwalimu Nyerere family members, Magige Nyerere. Gabriel Landa one of the race organisers told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam that preparation for the grand race is almost complete ahead of the flag off. He said that the annual race will cover over 1400 kilometres from Msasani, Dar es Salaam on its way to the climax at Mwalimu Nyerere birth village of Mwitongo in Butiama District, Mara region. “Preparation is finalised, over 150 riders will take part in the event. They are from Tanzania Mainland and the Isles. The race will cover over eight regions of Tanzania,” he said. Landa said among others, it aims to honour the former Tanzanian President, Julius Nyerere who died in 14th October 1999. From Dar es Salaam, the grand cycling pass in Coast Region, Morogoro, Dodoma, Singida, Tabora, Shinyanga, Simiyu, Mwanza and its last destination Mara region. He said 60 riders will start at Msasani, while others will join them from different regions on the way. Apart from honouring the former president, Landa said the race also pays homage to Tanzanians who marched from Butiama to Mwanza in 1967. “During Arusha declaration Mwalimu Nyerere also organised walk from Butiama to Mwanza. Walking is not simple thing, they hurt their legs, soldiers did good job to support them and attended their wounds. “Those in critical condition during march were carried on cars and despite all those challenges Nyerere did not turn back, he insured he led others to complete the mission to its destination in Mwanza,” he said. “We are using this platform also to promote the sports, tourism and develop interest for Tanzania to use bikes as one of the means of transport that benefit their health. “Also we promote environment and preserve it for social and economic benefits. That has been the race’s target since we started the event in 2014.” The club also is promoting Tree Planting through “Miti kwa Umri” campaign which insists Tanzanians to plant trees corresponding to their ages.