YOUNG Africans have extended their defender Lamine Moro’s contract following his commendable services for the club. Moro who scored vital goals for the club, thanked the management and supporters for believing in him to extend his stay at the club while pledging that with fellow teammates, they will do whatever it takes to make fans happy. "Supporters should keep on supporting us because when they are happy, we too become happy and we will give them what they always want," he said. Moro has lately become the household name in the top flight league after scoring two decisive goals against Mbeya City and Mtibwa Sugar, both courtesy of assists from Angolan import Carlinho Fernandes 'Carlinhos'. He is so far the top goal scorer at Yanga in the unfolding league with two goals while Michael Sarpong and Mukoko Tonombe have each contributed one goal in four matches the club has  played. Coming up, the Jangwani Street based club will host Coastal Union on Saturday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam before welcoming Polisi Tanzania, Simba and KMC at the same venue in their upcoming four games Meanwhile Lamine Moro has become the first Premier League player to publicly denounce the recent waves of hooliganism transpired in Morogoro. On the day, some fans believed to be supporters of Yanga physically attacked a section of their counterparts who put on Simba jerseys who descended to watch the game between Yanga and Mtibwa Sugar. However, speaking after extending his contract at the club which will take him until 2023, the Ghanaian defender said football is not war hence people should peacefully cherish their clubs. "What I want to tell all supporters is that football is love and there is no way it can make us enemies. We should always remember that after football, we are a family and one people," he said. Meanwhile, the club's kit and merchandise suppliers GSM elaborated that they will continue to extend contracts of players whose tenure at the club is nearing completion. This was said recently by GSM'S Director of Investment Hersi Said reiterated that their main focus is to help the team achieve its goals of winning titles.