AFTER conceding their first Premier League defeat, Simba Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck narrated that his focus now is on the next match saying he does not live in the past. The defending champions will host Ruvu Shooting on Monday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam in their seventh league match of the campaign and they will be eager to stamp success on the day. However, the 1-0 defeat they suffered from Tanzania Prisons on Thursday saw the reigning champions tie on points with the fourth-placed Biashara United as both sides have bagged 13 points with the former enjoying a good goal difference to sit third on the ladder. But, giving his reaction after the sweaty 90 minutes of play, Vandenbroeck said the question is not what went wrong to his team but rather, what can they do next week to do better. “I think we have to accept that we lost today (Thursday) as such, my job is to see what we can adjust so as to win next week on Monday. I do not want to live in the past hence, I am looking forward to our next game,” he said. He, however, doubted that the negative result was caused by the absence of at least seven game changing players in his squad who failed to be part of the crucial encounter. “Are you sure that we could have scored with if the other players were available? Are you sure that we could not concede if they were present? “You never know, in football, there is no law like one plus one equals two,” said the Belgian trainer who is searching his second league title with the Reds. In his response, Simba’s left back Mohamed Hussein said the outcome was part of the game and that the most important thing for them is to be positive for the next match. He also declined to adhere that the absence of some key faces in the squad contributed to their downfall while insisting that every player at Simba has got strong abilities to help the club win. On his part, Tanzania Prisons Assistant Coach Shabani Kazumba expressed his satisfaction for getting vital three points from Simba saying the win will energise them ahead of their incoming fixtures. “We started the season slowly but now, I can see that the team is building confidence and I believe that with the good results we have gained, our upcoming game against Dodoma FC will also end in our favour,” he said. He added that he knows that Simba play football similar to that of Manchester City and Barcelona as such, the best means to get good results is to use more energy like the way they did.