TANZANIA Posts Corporation (TPC) has assured its customers of better postal services in the country. Speaking in Dar es Salaam at the weekend on the occasion of marking World Post Day celebrated each year on October, TPC Postmaster General, Hassan Mwang'ombe said they had committed themselves to ensuring better services that would facilitate industrialisation. According to him, TPC is still undergoing transformation to reach many people and improve its services for national development. “We are committed to ensuring our services are improved by adopting new technologies. As we know that nowadays, technology is very powerful be assured of better and affordable services. We encourage Tanzanians to use TPC services in sending and receiving their parcels," he said. He added that TPC expected to launch 'Posta Mlangoni' services that allowed any customers to access services anywhere through smart phones. "We expect to improve our services by introducing 'Posts Mlangoni' services. This helps our customers to access services wherever they are and on time. We planned to continue reaching many customers in and outside the country to increase our revenue and national income," he explained. According to him, World Post Day reminds people of how postal services have become easier for everyone to access them all over the world. “They have helped to change how people communicate with one another in drastic ways.” However, before the internet, people would have really hard times getting letters and packages to one another due to international policies regarding mail. According to him, the purpose of World Post Day is to create awareness of the role of the postal sector and its contribution to socioeconomic development. Every year, more than 150 countries celebrate World Post Day in a variety of ways. In certain countries, World Post Day is observed as a holiday. Many posts use the event to introduce or promote new postal products and services. Some posts also use World Post Day to reward their employees for good services.