SOKOINE University of Agriculture (SUA) and the Nelson Mandela African Institute of Science and Technology in Arusha have received 15 million US Dollars, equivalent to 2.3bn/- each for research activities. The Director of Research Coordination and Promotion from the Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), Dr. Bugwesa Katale said that the support has come at the right time while the country has just moved to a middle county economy. “It is my hope that the support will address the pertinent issues in our community by reducing the burden of malaria death, animal diseases and building the pool of researchers hence compliment government efforts of providing a high-quality livelihood and well-being to his people,” Dr Katale said. According to him, SUA would use the fund to conduct research on how to improve the identification of pathogens in animals and fish, including access to fish vaccines. “The five year research fund will be under Prof Gerald Misinzo from SUA and they expect to focus on four animal diseases including swine flu, Sotoca in goats and sheep, measles and disease which affect fish in natural waters but also in those that are domesticated,” he explained. Commenting on the funding provided to the Nelson Mandela Institute of Science and Technology, Dr Katale noted, they would conduct research to find new anti-malarial drugs from plants and improve the effectiveness of existing drugs using technology. Dr Katale said the research fund is provided to COSTECH as research coordinators in the country, as well as who will manage and monitor the projects, prepare reports and ensure the intended objectives in the projects are achieved. “It is an honor for Tanzania to host two research chairs at SUA and the Nelson Mandela Institute of Science and Technology (NMIST). This is the support from the Oliver Tambo Research Group who provided the fund to support research activities in some African countries. We are proud to be among them,” he added. He said the initiative would be officially launched on October 27, this year in South Africa as part of the 2020 by Oliver Tambo month celebration. For her part, the coordinator of Science granting council initiative (SGCI) form COSTECH, Neema Tindamanyire the Tambo Africa Research Chairs Initiative (ORTARChI) has selected 10 institutions and chairpersons who are the founders of the first phase of the program, which was initiated by the South African Research Fund. The initiative is also due to the work of Oliver Tambo, a prominent South African leader who specializes in the history of science education, and believes in evolution through the provision of education, cooperation and solidarity of nations in Africa.