THE number of patients seeking mental health care from the country’s medical facilities has increased following improved health services and increased public awareness about the illness. A Mental Health Specialist at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) Mloganzila, Dr Fileuka Ngakongwa said that previously people with mental disorders were seeking medical care while the illness was at an advanced stage because of their belief that the problem could be treated by traditional healers. But, she noted that people with mental related disorders can be treated and recover from the condition if they will seek medication at early stages. Dr Ngakongwa, however said that men were more likely to get mental disorders than women, citing the ratio between men and women who are likely to get schizophrenia is 2:1, meaning that men have the chance of getting the condition twice than women, while in major depressive disorders the ratio is sometimes the same. She noted that although the risk factors for developing mental illness are the same to both men and women, one of the reasons why men are likely to get mental disorders than women are due to the fact that they don’t like to share their concerns. Dr Ngakongwa said that since mental health is a fundamental component of health, recognition of mental disorders and awareness about its importance is crucial for a healthy society. “Public knowledge and awareness about the illness was also limited, leading to stigma and discrimination against the patients,” Dr Ngakongwa said. She said as Tanzania joins the rest of the world to mark the World Mental Health Day today, public awareness about mental health has increased as well as improved medication such as the use of second generation drugs which have less severe side effects compared to first generation drugs and modern machines such as electroconvulsive therapy. “We have witnessed patients recovering from the conditions and resume their routine due to improved access to medication and strengthening of biological psychotherapy or counselling and occupational therapy among others,” she said. She detailed that the number of patients seeking mental health care at MNH Mloganzila has increased by 23 per cent in 2019/ 2020 compared to the number of patients attended in 2018/2019. According to Dr Ngakongwa, in 2019/2020, MNH Mloganzila attended to 980 patients with mental disorders compared to less than 230 who received treatment in 2018/2019. Dr Ngakongwa who is also head of the Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health at MNH added that the number of patients treated at MNH Upanga in 2019/2020 has increased by 10.8 per cent to 32,307 from 21,183 respectively. She further detailed that the national health facility has also introduced mental health clinic for children and youth at Mloganzila, where services are available throughout. She clarified that any person can have mental disorders, but there were factors that may increase the risk of developing the illness, including ability to overcome challenges, environment (surrounding community), ongoing medical conditions such as diabetes, blood pressure, HIV/AIDS and nutrients deficiency especially to children. Dr Ngakongwa said some of the most common mental health conditions include schizophrenia, major depressive disorders whose occurrence ranges between 25 to 38 per cent depending on the areas. “This is a common mental disorder worldwide and a major contributor to the overall global burden of disease,” she said. Other mental conditions include bipolar, anxiety and autism, which she said interfere with thoughts, feelings, and behaviours. World Mental Health Day is observed on October 10 every year, with the overall objective of raising awareness of mental health issues around the world and mobilising efforts in support of mental health.