THE establishment of private hatcheries is recommended as the best way towards increasing flock size of indigenous chicks, creating employment and increasing income to Tanzanians. Researchers revealed that the production of indigenous chickens will create employment for youth and women at different stages of rearing also at hatchery machines, chicks rearing, feed processors and vaccine producers. The Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (TALIRI), a researcher from the Department of Non-Ruminant, Ms Mary Magonka said in an interview that the production of a large number of indigenous chickens particularly ‘Kishingo and Horasi’ will make availability of quality chicks for meat, eggs dealers and consumers. Ms Magonka added knowledge transfer and technologies related to rearing, feeding and disease control obtained from training conducted by researchers will effectively assist the farmers to benefit out and make the poultry sector profitable. “Use of new technology for chicks rearing will increase flock numbers from 5 to 100 per household, reduce chicks’ mortality from 80 per cent to 5 per cent hence increase production,” she said. On the other development research shows that indigenous chickens under a semi intensive system performs better. “A semi intensive system should be promoted as the best option to improve productivity and increase income,” she said. Ms Magonka added that Horasi and Kishingo were good in terms of egg production as they can be used to produce quality day old chicken for stakeholders, hence boost income of smallholder farmers. Also, Kuchi can be used to crossbreed other ecotypes for increasing the weight of chicken. Further studies should be done on a molecular level on production and health. Large numbers of chickens of the same size and age at once will increase household income, food security and country economy (GDP). She said that a disease control programme in place will reduce indigenous chicken’s mortality and ultimately increase household income. Ms Magonka thanked the government through the Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH), for funding the project and the Director of Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (TALIRI) for facilitation and Department of Non-Ruminant for their support during the study. Policy makers at Local Government authority should advise the extension officers to work very closely with chickens keepers while discouraging the scavenging system. Using artificial chicks rearing should be encouraged to farmers to increase the flock size, reduce chick mortality rate from 80 per cent to 5 per cent and increase number clutches per hen per year, 3 – 4 to 6 -7.