KAGERA Regional Police Commander (RPC), Revocatus Malimi has warned trouble makers who intend to cause havoc during the October 28th, 2020 General Election that there is no such room as the police force is ready to take swift action. Equally, he emphasized that nobody is above the law, calling on political party candidates to conduct their campaigns in a peaceful manner. He sounded the warning as he addressed a press conference at his office, following reports that some candidates were preaching hatred speeches to incite violence. “I have received reports that unnamed candidates are preaching hate, inciting their followers to cause havoc. This trend cannot be allowed to happen,” he said. Mr Malimi further explained that at least ten suspects, all residents of Kyerwa District are helping the police in investigations for causing a breach of the peace during campaigns. Seven suspects were arrested on October 7th this year at Itera village for assaulting CCM members at around 7 p.m, while were coming from a campaign meeting that was addressed by a candidate vying for Councilorship. He named them as Anderson Angelo (26), Vitalis Barnabas (30), Calist Phinias (40), Phinias Domician (31), Dismas Mjungu (29), Vitalis Manase (33) and Cassian Nicus (40), all residents of Itera village. On October 11th, this year, unknown people cut down a banana plantation, property of Oswald Anselm (40). He named three suspects who were arrested in connection with the incident as Anderson Angelo (40), Vitalis Barnabas (30) and Calist Phinias (40). He further said on October 3 this year, another suspect identified as Didace Venant (45) was arrested for destroying placards bearing the name of a CCM parliamentary candidate. On October 3 this year, a lorry with registration number T750 DGR carrying Chadema placards swayed and injured two bodaboda riders identified as Davis Salehe (23) and Erick Kalori (25), who were admitted to Isingiro hospital in stable condition. A suspect identified as Leonard Mathayo is helping police investigations in connection with the incident. Mr Malimi said the suspects will be arraigned in court upon completion of investigations.