SERIOUSNESS must be a top priority in the 2022 World Cup campaign that places Tanzanian envoys, Taifa Stars against one of the African giants, Tunisia in mid-November. The two matches against Tunisians on November 13th and 17th are very crucial and decisive since they both hold a vital key towards our desired goal. We are playing against the country that has almost qualified after pocketing six clean points from two matches as opposed to our envoys, who have bagged three points, also from two games. It will be pity and big disgrace for success-hungry Taifa Stars if they fail to claim maximum points from the two-tier mission against the North Africans, therefore the team’s Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije and players should find all weapons in store to clear the Tunisian hurdle. The success over Tunisia will be very rewarding to Stars players and the national, but most importantly, it will heighten the status of football along together the FIFA World rankings. Taifa Stars record in both regional and international tournament has not been impressive, hence the success over Tunisia will be a perfect moment for the nation to restore faith after dismal performance in the Africa Cup of Nations finals in Egypt where we saw our envoys losing heavily all their three group matches. Our players should know that good results in a competition of the World Cup’s magnitude do not come on a silver platter and hence they should stay focused. The players must have to put up a spirited fight and register victories in both home and away games that will give them additional six points. We insist on seriousness because the two matches will have a chance for our players to prove and market themselves, which is one of the positives that could come out of the competition. We wish players and the team luck as we have every reason to believe they will do us proud and make a flying start in the race for tickets at the 2022 World Cup finals in Qatar. We have seen our weaknesses in the 2019 AFCON finals, we have also clearly seen the main areas of improvement, what motivation to be offered to the team and what fans should do to support the entire mission, so it’s a time to implement all these in this World Cup mission.