THROUGH evidences from fossils, paleontologists believe about 518 million years ago from an ancestor of all vertebrate animals the modern fishes evolved about 530 million years ago when a small jawless armored fish came into existence. History shows that 419 million years ago a bony fish evolved to be grandparent of more than 30,000 species which dominate the sea today after adapting different changes 156 million years ago before the mass extinction which wiped dinosaurs from the ancient world about 66 million years ago. The account above shows that from 66 million years ago ancestors of modern fishes started to dominate the sea because they were even affected by what happened 150 million years ago when underneath volcanic changed the shape of the world through continentals drifting which created modern seas after placing all continents in the positions which they are found today. After surviving the effects of continental drift which went down with most of living organisms prime food sources, ancestors of parrotfish developed a unique taste of eating coral. Scientists say their feeding activity is important for the production and distribution of coral sands in the reef biome, and can prevent algae from choking coral, one may wonder how was it possible but the answer is very clear due to scarcity of food in the ocean it was a do or die practice and today we enjoy what this fishes have been doing from millions of years ago. Beautiful tropical sandy beaches which attract tourists from all over the world to flock in Pemba, Unguja, Tanga, Dar es salaam and Mafia are made by white sands which is a by product of parrotfish in the Indian ocean. Different sources of sands are available in the deep sea to shoreline but the parrotfish play an important role in production and accumulation of any in sea which covers more than 71per cent of the planet Earth from more than four billion years ago. Paleontologists say together with other planet in the solar system, the Earth evolved about 4.6 billion years ago then a liquid cloud from the solar system came and rained water on the earth surface, from that moment to date water filled more than half of the earth’s surface and created habitat for more than 230,000 species which dwell in the sea. Scientists say of all the animals which are found in the sea, parrotfish play an important role because their daily activities contribute into improvement of the environment because their feeding activity is important for the production and distribution of coral sands in the reef biome, and can prevent algae from choking coral. Parrotfish are capable to grind pieces of rocks in the sea beds because they are equipped with powerful jaws armed with sharp and strong nine (9) on the upper jaw and 11 on the lower jaw which together work to chop and grind rocks into fine particles. Unlike other species the parrotfish is armed with wide teeth which is capable to stand firm against any type of coral where they chop and grind pieces of rocks to form sandy particles. The parrotfish is found in a family which has more than 95 species but the one which dwells in the Indian Ocean has its contribution on the environment of the tropical sea water from about 65 million years ago when they started to chop pieces of rocks and grind them to form smaller pieces which are swallowed down to the intestine which has special mechanism to absorb nutrients from the fine particles before it is pushed out as sand. Coral are rich in different nutrients including calcium which is obtained from dead bodies of other marine animals, due to this fact the parrotfish have developed a unique taste on them where an individual is capable of grinding 275 grammes per day or 100 kilogrammes a year. Scientists say deep into the Indiana Ocean, consisting of 40 to 70 individuals a school of parrotfish may come together on a rock where they will produce five tonnes of sand after a year, after feeding on the rock the fishes push out waste material which is mainly made by sands which move across the sea in a cloud form before falling on the other rocks where the accumulate in layers year after years generation after generations. Marine experts say one parrotfish is capable to live between 5 to 40 years and the long lifespan enables every individual to leave its mark on the sea bed before it dies. These rocks grow year after years to form what is called coral island, on the other hand we may say they are built by parrotfish, scientists say parrotfish work together with underneath volcanic activities to build islands in the sea in a long process which takes more than 30 million years, covering about four square kilometers Maziwe island on the southern part of Pangani township is a good example of activities of these fishes in the Indian Ocean. Chumbe islet on the shores of Zanzibar, Bongoyo and Mbudya which are found 2.5 kilometers from the city of Dar es salaam are good examples of amazing works of parrotfish in the sea but a 250 square kilometers Pangavini islet on the way to Unguja from Dar es salaam is a living illustration of what we are saying about these fishes. South of the city of Dar es salaam, Fungyasini and Mnembe islet on the shores of Unguja can not be left aside because of their size, beauty, nature and positions. Meanwhile scientists say from bed of the sea waves bring sand to shorelines of Tanzania and other countries neighbouring Indian Ocean but residents of Dar es salaam, Zanzibar, Tanga, Bagamoyo, Lindi and Mtwara know how white sandy beaches attract tourists from all over the world to their town and cities while Maldives and Hawaii are very proud of their islands because of parrotfish. In Kiembesamaki, Kisiju, Ununio, Boko, Pangani and Kilwa, fishermen know something about the parrotfish but scientists say most of these amazing creatures start their lives as female but before death they change their sexual organs and turn into males, this happens when an individual change its original colour. Most individuals start their life in grey colour as they grow older, they turn into green as a threatening sign to predators such as sharks who hunt them during day time. At night parrotfish retreat into their barrow, for security reasons they secrete a special mucus to cover and made they bodies to be slippery and difficult to catch, with unpleasant smell the mucus is used to repel some predators, from Mikindani Mtwara, Kisiju Pwani, Kizimkazi to Fumba in Zanzibar fishermen know what the pass through after eating fillets or meat from this an abnormal fish. After eating substances from the parrotfish people fall asleep because of existence of poisonous substances in meat of this fish. On the other side, bright colours of these fishes play very important role in making sea beds of Pemba, Zanzibar, Bagamoyo, Mafia, Kilwa and Mnazibay to be attractive and invite divers from all over the world.. rstanslaus@yahoo.com Mobile: 0754362330