MBEYA City seemed to have the bluntest striking force in the Premier League season when hit its fifth round this week as the team has not scored a single goal after their five-game outings. Still, the team fought hard in four matches and lost by a small margin, only their 4-0 loss to Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) during the season opener that down-graded their fighting power. Their later four matches against Young Africans, Namungo and Azam saw them fighting hard to lose by a slim 1-0 loss. As evidenced through the five matches Mbeya City played so far, not a single goal has been netted after playing 450 minutes, something that puts blames to the team’s striking force, though the team’s coach Amri Said claimed after their barren draw with rivals Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya, that he was still polishing the youthful squad and hoped the team to regain composure in the coming encounters. The fifth round draw with Prisons at last gave the team their first Premier League point, but it still denied them a goal after the match ended goal-less. Mbeya City are still languishing at the bottom of the table with a single point. At the start of the fifth round it is evident that the 2020/21 League season should not be taken as a wild goose chase that ends fruitlessly, but a tough race whose going is almost similar to the gruelling steeplechase. Gwambina who were previously placed at the 17th position with a single point, climbed up on Saturday after beating their fellow debutants Ihefu FC 2-0 at Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza. Mwadui also climbed up following a 1-0 win over Namungo away at Majaliwa Stadium. The standings until late Saturday, placed Mbeya City at the 18th position while Ihefu moved down to the 17th position with 3 points. The victory over Ihefu also gave Gwambina their first two goals of the league while they have conceded seven goals. Mbeya City also parade the poorest goal difference of -7 means they have allowed the ball behind their net seven times while scoring nothing to their opponents. Very opposite to Mbeya City are Simba SC who parade the best difference of 14:2, a feat that speaks of the team’s superiority in scoring goals. The average was accounted after their Sunday’s 4-0 victory over JKT Tanzania away in Dodoma. Breathing fire behind Simba in goal scoring superiority are Azam with a goal difference of 9:2 and that came after their 4-2 victory over Kagera Sugar at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. Prior to the match Azam were yet to concede a goal after playing four matches, or 360 minutes before allowing the ball behind their net. KMC with goal average of 8:3, suffered double loss and their goal difference was reduced to 8:4 after losing to Polisi Tanzania at Uhuru stadium in their fifth match. The Kinondoni-based team began the league with a sound note after winning their first three matches of the league to claim 9 points at the end. KMC’s previous superior goal average was contributed much by their hefty 4-0 victory over Mbeya City in the league opener. At fifth place in the league table, debutants Dodoma Jiji seem to be the surprise package this season as the top-placed team outside Dar es Salaam region. Dodoma Jiji temporarily challenged Dar es Salaam 1-2- 3-4 order of standings after removing KMC from number four position. Prior to Saturday’s kick off it was Azam, Simba, Young Africans and KMC at the top. Polisi Tanzania also seem a force to reckon with this season. They are now placed at the fourth position with +4 goal average with 10 points garnered from five-game outings. The team’s notable victories included a 1-0 win over Namungo at Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa and later another surprising 1-0 win over KMC in Dar es Salaam. The former champions Young Africans who are breathing fire behind Azam and Simba at the third place have been doing well too. The Jangwani Street side seems to parade the best defence after allowing only one goal behind their net. They command a 7:1 goal average that makes them trumpet a beautiful +6 song at the end of the fifth round. Their notable victory was penned in the fifth round of the league in their 3-0 victory over Coastal Union. Though it is still at the infancy, the league seems to be tough and the tough are commanding the run. Teams like Ihefu, who are placed 17th with three points and four others at the 16th, 15th, 14th and 13th positions, must find a better approach when the league resumes after the end of international break. From bottom after Ihefu there is JKT Tanzania at 16th position below Coastal Union, Gwambina and Kagera Sugar, who have each penned four points. Nothing short of hard work will help the teams sparkle or escape relegation since its first glimpse, when the going gets tough it is the tough who get going.