AS Tanzania gears up for the 2020 General Election, latest opinion poll indicates that CCM’s presidential flag-bearer, Dr John Magufuli is the most likely candidate to win the election after commanding huge support from youth, women and men. The poll results released in Dar es Salaam indicated that 83 per cent of youth, 86 per cent of women and 80 per cent of men who participated in the survey will vote for Dr Magufuli. According to the survey, the incumbent president is leading the presidential race while the Chadema flag-bearer, Mr Tundu Lissu is placed second with15 per cent support from the youth, women (12 per cent) and men (17). ACT -Wazalendo Presidential candidate, Bernard Membe garnered one per cent of votes from youth and women and 2 per cent from men, while other candidates obtained one per cent from the three groups. The six-month survey conducted by a Russian based Gharus Technology indicated that Zanzibar CCM presidential candidate, Dr Hussein Mwinyi is leading the race, with his opponent, Seif Sharif Hamad from ACT Wazalendo placed in second position. Gharus Technology Public Relations Officer, Ms Elena Riazanova noted that 71 per cent of youth and women respectively and 70 per cent of men said they were going to vote for Dr Mwinyi, while one per cent of youth, 27 per cent of women and 29 per cent of men will vote for Hamad and one per cent for candidates from other political parties. The study also showed that Dr Magufuli was highly supported in Simiyu (90 per cent), Katavi (89 per cent) Dodoma (86 per cent) Singida and Unguja (84 per cent), Tanga 81 per cent, Mwanza (77 per cent), Tabora (76 per cent), Dar es Salaam (72 per cent) Moshi (68 per cent), Arusha (67 per cent) and Pemba (55 per cent). Chadema’s Tundu Lissu is highly supported in Pemba (43pc), Arusha (31 per cent) Moshi (30 per cent) Dar es Salaam (27 per cent), Tabora (23 per cent) Mwanza (20 per cent), Tanga (17 per cent), Singida (15 per cent) Unguja (14 per cent) Dodoma (12 per cent), Katavi (9 per cent) and Simiyu (8 per cent). Other candidates obtained between 1 and two per cent votes in all regions involved in the study. Zanzibar CCM presidential candidate, Dr Mwinyi is leading the race in Unguja and Pemba, whereby 89 per cent and 52 per cent of participants said they were going to vote for him respectively. ACT – Wazalendo Hamad commanded huge support in Pemba with 47 per cent votes and 10 per cent in Unguja. Founder of Gharus Technology, Mr Nelson Kumaga said that the survey was conducted to capture Tanzania’s opinion on the 2020 General Election. He said the sixmonth study carried out between May and October this year involved 48,239 respondents from both Mainland and Zanzibar -- 58 per cent being women and 42 per cent men. Mr Kumaga said that 95 per cent of all participants will vote in the general election slated for Wednesday next week. Tanzanians will go to the polls on Wednesday to vote for the president, parliamentarians and councillors in the sixth General Election under the multiparty system. A total of 29,754,699 eligible voters are expected to take part in this year’s General Election.