THE ruling CCM has pledged to further enhance economic prosperity in Zanzibar semi-autonomous Islands if re-elected into power in the upcoming 2020 General Elections. Union presidential candidate and CCM chairperson, Dr John Magufuli, assured the Islanders that the party was committed to bringing about economic revolution when addressing voters at Mnazi Mmoja grounds alongside Zanzibar presidential candidate, Dr Hussein Mwinyi over the weekend. Dr Magufuli pointed out that among other steps that he and Dr Mwinyi would jointly do, if elected, would be to uplift living standards and address the issue of unemployment on the Isles. “Our two sides of the union have many areas for cooperation, including trade, blue economy and marine resources, tourism and agriculture, without forgetting infrastructures,” he stated. Expounding on how the two would exploit trade opportunities to bring about economic prosperity, Dr Magufuli explained that he was aware that many Zanzibaris were engaging in trade, and that the Union government and that of Zanzibar would work on resolving trade challenges. “I promise all traders in Zanzibar and those in mainland, that the CCM governments under my leadership and Dr Mwinyi would take you to the next level…we will make Zanzibar a business hub,” he guaranteed. About the blue economy, he downplayed misleading claims by opposition politicians that Zanzibaris have no access to deep sea fishing, saying the matter is one of Union matters and its regulator, the Deep Sea Fishing Authority, is based in Zanzibar. He said the industry’s accrued revenues are shared between the authority itself, the Union and Zanzibar governments at 50, 30 and 20 per cent, respectively. In line with this, to make the sector more profitable, the two governments will purchase eight fishing vessels out of which, four for Zanzibar and four for mainland to exploit the 2.5tri/- fishing industry with huge employment potential. The CCM Union presidential candidate stated that Dr Mwinyi has repeatedly explained that he would change the economy of the Isles by bringing together all the Zanzibaris. Earlier, Dr Magufuli commended the outgoing Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein for the great social, political and economic feats during his 10-year tenure. Dr Magufuli cited an overall economic growth, increase in tourist arrivals as well construction of economic infrastructure like roads, airports and ports as areas in which Dr Shein scored highly. Dr Magufuli beseeched Zanzibaris to elect Dr Hussein Mwinyi for the Isles presidency, describing the youthful candidate as a development icon. “If you indeed need development, vote for Dr Mwinyi," President Magufuli told a mammoth campaign rally adding; “Whoever opposes Dr Mwinyi is fighting against you (Zanzibaris), they are envious of your eventual social and economic prosperity." He illustrated Dr Mwinyi as the best presidential hopeful with whom they can work smoothly to maintain the union and protect the January 12, 1964 Zanzibar revolutions. He termed the 56-year union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar as a product of "Our visionary leaders; our geographical proximity; our people's historical relations; and our parties' (TANU and ASP) friendly ties even before independence." At the platform, the Zanzibar presidency seeker promised massive economic transformations for Zanzibaris if elected in the October 28 General Election. He pledged to explore the blue economy, which he said has great potential of creating jobs and earning the country more foreign currencies. Dr Mwinyi asked for support from his union counterpart in the execution of huge development projects, including construction of port, roads, a referral hospital as well as supply of water and electricity to all islanders.