BASKETBALL giants JKT are bundled out of this year’s National Basketball League (NBL) after
failing to clear the group stage’s hurdle. One of the basketball powerhouses, JKT sadly made exit just a few weeks after narrowly missing
the Regional Basketball League (RBA) title in Dar es Salaam. JKT who are placed in group A together with Kurasini Heat and Oilers, failed to advance after losing both matches to their traditional rivals Oilers and Kurasini Heat. Following the outcomes, Kurasini Heat and Oilers have sealed tickets to play in the quarter final stage of the tournament. Kurasini Heat finished top ahead of Oilers who came second after securing one win and a loss. Prior to these competitions, JKT dominated the Regional Basketball League and managed to qualify to the finals but they were not lucky there after Kurasini overpowered them to emerge the
champions after winning three of their four play-off games. JKT won the first game by 64- 57 before Kurasini responded with 54-44 win in the second play- off and later then won again by 78-77. They claimed the title after 64-61 in the third game. Kurasini will meet Savio in their quarter final games at Don Bosco in Dar es Salaam. The RBA champions Don Bosco Lioness are second with two wins in two games they have played. Savio were positioned second in Group B and had won two games out of three they had played. Army Basketball Club who are the leaders of Group B will face Oilers at the same venue in another quarter final game. In group stage ABC won all of their three games. Vijana will play Ukonga Kings while Panthers will lock horns with Don Bosco to take Pazi. In women’s table JKT Stars are on top after registering three straight wins. The RBA champions Don Bosco Lioness are second with two wins in two games they have played. At third place are Jeshi Stars who are winless, followed by Vijana Queens also winless. Dodoma Queens have not yet played a game. Jeshi Stars will take on Dodoma Queens today as Vijana Queens will play against DB Lioness at Don Bosco today