 Retired Judge Mark D Bomani who passed away this month was one of the founding fathers and an illustrious son of Tanzania and indeed independent Africa. He was born, educated and practiced law and politics during the colonial and post-colonial era amidst the cold war.  It was a period of the struggle for independence, establishment of new nations and their transformation and of the armed struggle against colonial and white minority regimes. The life and legal and political career of Judge Bomani was influenced by all these configurations, trends and movements. With uhuru, Mr Bomani emerged as a pillar of the legal and justice sector serving first as Solicitor General and later Attorney General (AG) with a seat in founder President Julius Nyerere’s Cabinet. In these two positions he helped lay the foundation of the country’s judicial and constitutional order. For a period of 11 years from 1965 to 1976, he was the chief legal advisor to government during a period of massive political, constitutional and economic changes. With Second Vice President Rashidi Kawawa also doubling up as Minister for Justice, Judge Bomani also performed most of the Ministerial duties, for example representing the country in regional and international fora. Indeed it was when he hosted the Commonwealth Legal and Justice Ministers’ conference in 1973 that I first worked with him. As a political moderate, he did not shy away from upholding his liberal convictions and voicing them as appropriate. Judge Bomani’s first major contribution was assisting with the legal and constitutional setting of the union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar, drafting the famous 1964 Articles of the Union and the respective legislation for the smooth running of the new United Republic of Tanzania. Given that Zanzibar had a completely different judicial system including the “peoples’ courts” Judge Bomani was walking a tight rope in his dealings with the isles. Second, as Tanzania solidified the Union, another major process was in the offing—the transition from multi-party-ism to a single party political system which was introduced in 1965 with successive Presidential and parliamentary elections held under the new political dispensation. He was a member of the 1963-1965 Kawawa-led Constitutional Commission on the One-Party state, and oversaw the enactment of the necessary statutes to effect the landmark constitutional changes. He also dealt with opposition to the transition from parliamentary to party supremacy voiced by some vocal MPs in the late 1960s, which culminated in their 1969 expulsion from the Party which meant their loss of Parliamentary seats. The same year a number of politicians and army officers were arrested and charged for plotting to overthrow the government. Judge Bomani oversaw the prosecution of the plotters in Tanzania’s first treason trial over 1970-1972. As he told me later it was a trying exercise since some of those involved had worked with him in government including in the Cabinet. This, he said, was different from the prosecution of soldiers who were involved in the January 1964 army mutiny, whom he had not worked with. Third came the move to the left with the 1967 Arusha Declaration on Socialism and Self-reliance. He oversaw the enactment of legislation on the nationalization of commercial banks, manufacturing industries, import - export companies and other major means of production and distribution. The resolution of legal cases and disputes-both local and foreign, evolving from the Arusha Declaration policies preoccupied the learned Judge until his exist from the AG Chambers a decade later. A case in point was the 1972 Acquisition of Buildings Act where he had favoured taxing the profits rather that nationalization of buildings. His viewpoint that it would undermine investment was not accepted. In 1976 Bomani left the country to work in support of the Southern African liberation struggle more especially the independence of South West Africa/ Namibia. He was Deputy Director of the then Lusaka-based United Nations Institute for Namibia (UNIN) working closely with the South West Africa Peoples’ Organization (SWAPO) and its leadership more especially the current Namibian President Dr Hage Geingob, UNIN’s Director over 1976 to 1990. The Institute through training, research, seminars and attachments for practical experience build the capacity of Namibians for work in independent Namibia. As a seasoned governance guru he helped in maintaining the delicate balance and relationships between the Namibian political, diplomatic and military leaders in exile – some in refugee camps and a critical mass at the war front. He occasionally visited the cadres in the camps. Furthermore, Judge Bomani led efforts in preparing the instruments of governance in advance of independence including a draft Constitution. Given that Namibia is a mineral-dominated economy he worked on the new mining policies, structural reforms and the ensuing legislation. Highly respected by the leadership of SWAPO and the Frontline states especially Presidents Nyerere and Kaunda he was a member of important missions to apartheid South Africa including one for talks with the most dreaded apartheid leader, P W Botha on Namibia’s constitutional development and independence. The Boers took Judge Bomani’s participation very seriously given the critical role that President Nyerere, then Chairman of the Frontline states played in the decolonization process. At independence the new multi-party Constituent Assembly of Namibia adopted the draft constitution without any amendments. Judge Bomani was then asked to be the first Attorney General which he declined opting to serve under a Namibian more or less as he had done at UNIN. Judge Bomani returned to the country towards the end of President Mwinyi’s term. He undertook a number of legal advisory roles including overseeing constitutional amendments to strengthen the Union given the new multi-party political setting. It included the establishment of a new position of a Union Vice President detached from the Zanzibar Presidency and as a running mate to a Presidential candidate. He was a CCM candidate for the 1995 Presidential election doing well in the initial stages but eventually not adopted as the Party’s  “flag bearer” when the Party opted for H.E Benjamin William Mkapa.” Judge Bomani, never a man to lose hope or to harbour grievances continued to serve both at home and abroad during the Mkapa and Kikwete administrations. He served as Chairman of various entities including the Tanzania Broadcasting Services and more importantly the Mining Reform Commission, whose recommendations found their way into mining policies and overall modus operandi of undertaking mining exploration, exploitation, processing, sell and taxation. His report provided some baselines for the more radical Fifth Phase government mining policies and strategies. Given his experience working with liberation movements in the armed struggle against white minority rule in Southern Africa he was invited by President Nyerere in 1998 to help him in his efforts to reconcile the warring parties and to bring peace to Burundi. Upon Nyerere’s death in 1999 Judge, Bomani continued to serve in the same capacity but under the leadership of Nyerere’s successor, retired President Nelson Mandela. Although there have been bumps in the peace process in Burundi including the 2015 attempted coup, it is fair to say that the end of civil war and return of relative peace in Burundi  is tribute to the efforts of Presidents Nyerere and Mandela and their key Assistant and Coordinator, Mark D Bomani. He has joined his two mentors in the next world when Burundi despite the sudden death of its long standing President, Pierre Nkuruzinza has managed to hold elections and to have a smooth transition to a new phase and new leader. Judge Bomani was a great son of Tanzania, a leading Pan-Africanist and a great  lawyer who leaves behind a rich legacy of service to the nation and its people, of dedicated service in advance of African liberation and maintenance of peace and security, political stability and sustainable human development. The high esteem in which he was held was illustrated by the state funeral-like send-off underlined by the presence of Tanzanian Premier  Kassium Majaliwa, retired Presidents Mwinyi and Mkapa and a Namibian delegation.  May his soul rest in peace. He will be greatly missed. •              Professor NGILA MWASE worked with and under Judge Bomani for many years and benefited from his wise counsel. (ngila.mwase@yahoo.com; Tel +255-752-427427)