THE government has commended the Tanzania Fertiliser Regulatory Authority (TFRA) for supporting national efforts to boost the economy. The state-run fertiliser agency has since, its inception in 2012, spearheaded the availability of quality fertilisers to enable farmers to increase crop yield. Synthetic fertilisers are sold at low prices and TFRA authorities have launched a nationwide education campaign for fertiliser utilisation for increased production. Speaking in Dar es Salaam during the launch of TFRA Master Workers Council, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture Gerald Kusaya said TFRA had played a key role in mobilising investments for the construction of fertiliser factories to minimise fertiliser importation. “The government, through the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), has opened windows for any investor in the fertiliser value chain and TFRA has invited more investors in the manufacture of fertilisers to meet local and foreign market demand,” Mr Kusaya said, adding that it was the responsibility of the Workers Council to push for industrialisation to generate employment for the majority jobless youth. Current investment opportunities existing in the fertiliser value chain include manufacturing and packaging, international trade, clearing and forwarding, domestic distribution, market linkages and storage. Other areas of investment are financing, quality assurance and publicity. In a speech read on his behalf by Mr Philibert Lutale, a senior official in the ministry, Mr Kusaya said domestic manufacturing would reduce the price of fertilisers, create employment for Tanzanians and contribute to the national economy. He appealed to the TFRA Master Workers Council to fight against corruption as it tarnished the image of TFRA. Besides fighting against corruption, Mr Kusaya also laid emphasis on accountability as an important virtue in dealing with TFRA clientele. “You should establish a special desk to deal with workers’ complaints and those of your clients to create an enabling working environment,” he said. TFRA has made great strides in the fertiliser business through the introduction of a fertiliser bulk procurement system (BPS) which has made it possible for people with limited capital and experiences in international trade dynamics. This system has increased market competitiveness that contributes to lowering fertiliser prices while increasing quality and utilisation. TFRA has established three zonal offices in the Southern Highlands, Arusha for the Northern Zone and Mwanza in the Lake Zone.