PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday asked Tanzanians to join their fellow Kenyans who are holding prayers against Covid- 19. President Magufuli told the public at a campaign rally at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium that Tanzania stands with Kenya in the fight against the deadly disease. “We stand with our neighbour in prayers to end this scourge. We did the same, and God heard our prayers, we are now free from it, we must join our fellow Kenyans in prayers,” he said. Dr Magufuli told the public that he had a conversation with Kenyan President, Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday morning, and he told him about his country’s move to submit itself to God regarding the disease. “I talked with President Uhuru this morning regarding their three days of prayers against Corona. We must join them so that God could hear their voices,” he noted. On Wednesday, President Kenyatta announced that the country will hold three-day prayers for the nation this weekend from Friday to Sunday. Communication from the Kenyan State House spokesperson, Kanze Dena said Kenyans were encouraged to pray for the country in their usual places of worship in compliance with Covid-19 containment protocols. On Saturday, President Kenyatta will convene an inter-faith national prayer service at State House, Nairobi starting at 10am. “The inter-faith prayer service will be broadcast live to the entire country on all leading television, radio, and digital media platforms,” Kanze said. This will be the second national prayer in the country since the virus struck the nation on March 13, 2020. On March 21, the president led the nation in a National Prayer Service against the coronavirus at State House. During the service, the clerics picked 11 points as prayer items. These were; Prayer for those infected by Covid-19 in Kenya and their relatives, for those who lost their lives around the world due to Covid- 19, for strength and healing of fear due to the pandemic, and for other national calamities and challenges. Others were for those suffering terminal illnesses such as cancer, HIV/Aids, for all health providers and workers and researchers, resilience and tolerance of all Kenyans, for patience and courage, for true unity of Kenyans and promotion of harmony and brotherhood, for healing of the nation, overcoming coronavirus and recovery for good health and for the prosperity of the nation, for promotion of social and economic values.