NEW revelation has unfolded over the grisly discovery of skulls and bones of six people to have been members of the same family, where one was a Standard Seven pupil, who yesterday could be finishing writing his national standard seven examinations. A close relative, Ms Diana Clement Mhangwa (48) told the “Daily News” over the phone interview that the remains were discovered two months after six members of the same family disappeared from public. The six members were living together at Mbugani village- Kakese Ward in Mpanda District, Katavi region. She named them as a Standard Seven pupil, Clement Mhangwa (14), who was studying at Mbuguni Primary School and his two siblings, Yasinta Mhangwa (6), who was in Standard One and Catherine Mhangwa (4) who was in preschool. Others on the list are their biological father, Clement Mhangwa (42) his wife Ester Bundara (30), who was five months pregnant and their grandmother Mhindi Buhagulwa (70). The granny Mhindi is a biological mother of Clement Mhangwa (42) and Diana Mhangwa (48). She further explained that on October 01 this year the closer relatives were informed over the grisly discovery of the skulls and bones believed to be of the six members from the same family. “It was almost two months since they disappeared from us ....we rushed to the scene of incident though we spotted six skulls and bones we identified them after seeing the clothes they wore before their disappearance including a T Shirt worn by the standard seven pupil (Clement ) and shirt and a pair of trouser worn by their father ..... “We have not yet handed over the remains of our relatives to medical experts.... We have already agreed as family that the remains will be buried at Mwagi Ward in Kwimba District in Mwanza “explained Diana Mhangwa (48), who introduced herself as the elder sister of Clement Mhangwa (42). She further said that her brother Clement Mhangwa was a contractor constructing Mbugani Primary and Secondary Schools infrastructures. “Though we are not aware of the motives behind their disappearance and possible killings, but much we know as closer relatives of the perished family is that a witch doctor, Joseph Mhangwa was a great friend of Clement Mhangwa my brother and Joseph was more than often encouraging him and his entire family to perform family ritual at the mountain, “ she added. The Katavi Regional Referral Hospital, Medical Officer in Charge Dr Yasinta Tzeba told this paper over phone interview that sample of remains of bones and skulls have been sent to Chief Government Chemist for DNA tests. “ But I cannot be for sure when the Chief Chemist office will undertake DNA test of the samples in question ... As I don’t know how many sample they have which are waiting for test “ she emphasized. Attributing the Mbugani Village Executive Officer (VEO) Mr George Ilesha told this paper over the phone interview that law abiding citizens informed him that a rickshaw rider Masanja Shija (27) was the one, who rode the entire family from their residence to the mountain to perform the family ritual. “We arrested Shija during interrogation and he confessed to have taken the entire family to the mountain… it was on August 24 this year shortly after mid night, but he kept it in his heart until October 01 this year after the discovery of the skull and bones of six members of the same family was made public, he shared with fellow riders the grisly story ... After hearing his testimony we handed him over to police officers for further interrogations “ he added. The Katavi Regional Police Commander RPC, Mr Benjamin Kuzaga confirmed the nasty incident saying two people, Masanja Shija (27) the rickshaw rider and Joseph Mhangwa (46) a withdoctor both from Kakese Village have been apprehended for interrogation. “The motive behind the killings has not yet established and that law enforcers are investigating the grisly incident,” stressed the RPC. However, a manhunt has been mounted by police to bring all the suspects to book so that they will face the full wrath of law.