PEMBA-BASED traders and small entrepreneurs have asked the prospective eighth phase government to address the problematic multiple taxes, which impede their business advancement. Speaking to CCM’s Zanzibar presidential candidate Dr Hussein Mwinyi, the traders complained over a myriad of taxes, which they claimed exceeded their capitals. “Many traders in Pemba have remained dormant due to unfriendly taxes, which they pay,” one of the entrepreneurs charged. They asked the presidential hopeful whom they assured of victory to introduce a friendly tax regime once he assumes office after the October 28 general election. They as well decried transport challenges, saying there were inadequate water and air transport services for their cargoes due to few boats and aircraft. The traders further cited lack of big and modern ports capable of offering many services at a time as another problem they encounter. The presidential hopeful was also asked to improve road infrastructure in the islands, including construction of flyovers to facilitate commercial activities. Responding, Dr Mwinyi reiterated his vision to transform the trade industry as part of his strategies to accelerate the country’s economic growth. He said the motive behind his meeting with the entrepreneurs is to get a thorough understanding of their problems, which he will immediately start with once he assumes the Vuga-based most authoritative office. The youthful presidency seeker pledged massive reforms to make the taxation system in the country friendlier to taxpayers. “Payment of taxes is inevitable for the country’s development, no government can afford to scrap taxes but we will put in place a conducive environment that will not hurt taxpayers,” assured Dr Mwinyi. He pledged to cement transport infrastructure to facilitate movements of people and their goods in the islands. He promised to construct huge ports in Unguja and Pemba to support sustainable social and economic development under the envisaged blue economy philosophy. Dr Mwinyi advised the municipal and district councils in the country to come up with firm strategies to construct major markets and modern bus stands to create a conducive business environment.