KILWA South parliamentary candidate Selemani Bungara (ACT-Wazalendo) alias Bwege has said he is pleased with CCM speeches delivered for about two months at various campaign platforms. Previously, Mr Bungara served as the parliamentarian for the constituency under CUF. This came to light recently when the former parliamentarian showed up during CCM’s campaign on Thursday at Ukote grounds of Kilwa Kivinje in Kilwa District. Mr Bungara was spotted at Ukote grounds using his mobile phone to record a speech delivered by CCM Central Committee member Kassim Majaliwa. The ex-member of parliament was seen cheering as Mr Majaliwa, who is also the Prime Minister, campaigned for the party’s presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli, the parliamentarian and ward councillors (CCM). Addressing Kilwa residents, Mr Majaliwa urged them to choose an MP who was prepared to pass the budget and help bring about development in the area. “The National Assembly is not a place for making jokes. That is why the country needs good leaders. It needs the kind of people who can speak for the people and not otherwise,” noted Mr Majaliwa. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa said 3bn/- had been spent on the construction of five health facilities in Kilwa District Council. “The government issued 3.02bn/- for the construction of a health centre in Kilwa Masoko whose implementation has been completed and it’s operating,” he said. Part of the money has been used for the construction of Tingi Health Centre and Somanga Health Centre whose implementation is in its final stages. Mr Majaliwa disclosed this on different occasions while addressing campaign rallies in Tingi and Kivinge wards in Kilwa District on Thursday. He noted that 403m/- had been spent on the improvement of the district hospital, a pharmacy and mortuary at Kinyonga District Hospital. On the improvement of dispensaries, the Premier said 164.7m/- had been used in Rushungi and Songomnara. Another 1.4bn/- was issued for procuring drugs, medical supplies and equipment on average each month 23.9m/- is used for the same. He called on the residents of Lindi to vote for Dr Magufuli to be the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Mr Francis Ndulane and Mr Ally Kasinge as parliamentarians for North and South Kilwa respectively. Along with the President and parliamentary candidates, Mr Majaliwa asked them to choose CCM ward candidates. Likewise, 7.5bn/- was used for the implementation of major water projects along with a feasibility study for well projects in 19 villages, improvement of water accessibility projects in Kilwa Masoko as well as the installation of water pipes in Somanga and Pande.