THE Managing Director with Sumry High Class Limited and Sumry Bus Services Limited, Mr Hamoud Mohamed Sumry, is to be arrested and detained as a civil prisoner if he does not pay 179m/-, as decretal sum to businessman, Mussa Shaibu Msangi. Decretal sum in law refers to penalty paid as a result of violating a Court decree. This follows the decision of the Court of Appeal to "strike out with costs" the application for revision lodged by Mr Sumry, the applicant, to challenge the ruling of the High Court's Commercial Division, after allowing one ground of objection lodged by Mr Msangi, the respondent. "We accordingly find that the preliminary objection has merit and we uphold it. It follows that the application is incompetent before the Court and we strike it out with costs to the respondent," the Justices Augustine Mwarija, Mwanaisha Kwariko and Lugano Mwandambo, declared. Mr Sumry was given 30 days by the High Court to pay Mr Msangi a sum of 179,379,980/-, but the former rushed to the Court of Appeal, by filing the application in question. In the objection, however, the counsel for the respondent contended that the applicant ought to have filed an appeal. During hearing of the preliminary objection, the applicant had maintained that he preferred revision because he was not a party to the impugned proceedings. His counsel insisted that although he was heard before the impugned decision was given but he was only a subject of execution proceedings. In their ruling, however, the justices of the appeals court were of considered view that although the applicant was not party to the execution proceedings, he was duly heard before the decision was made. According to the justices, before the hearing, the applicant was summoned to appear to show cause why the decree should not be executed by his arrest and detention as a civil prisoner. They noted that the applicant appeared in court through his advocate on July 23, 2015 and filed an affidavit opposing the mode in which the decree holder had applied to execute the decree. In response to that affidavit, the justices further noted, the respondent filed a counter-affidavit and the matter was heard on August 20, 2015 whereby the applicant was represented by his advocate. "The ruling was delivered on October 7, 2015 in the presence of the same advocate for the applicant. In the circumstances, the claim that the applicant's name was not in the title of the application is immaterial as the important thing is that he was duly heard," they said. They also pointed out that the impugned order, which is related to arrest and detention as a civil prisoner in execution of the decree is appealable with the leave of the High Court or the Court of Appeal as provided under section 5 (1) (b) (viii) and (c) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act. "Plainly, the applicant has not shown that he had no right of appeal, or that right was blocked by judicial process. He has not disclosed exceptional circumstances warranting the Court to invoke its revisional jurisdiction," the justices said. Before the High Court, the respondent won a case against Sumry High Class Limited and Sumry Bus Services Limited. He applied for attachments of buses in order to satisfy the decretal amount, but he did not succeed with that process to finality because such properties could not be traced. He changed the mode of execution of the court's order by filing an application for arrest and detention of the applicant as a civil prisoner and, as Managing Director of Sumry High Class Limited and Sumry Bus Services Limited, Mr Sumry was ordered individually to pay the decretal amount to Mr Msangi. Thereafter, the applicant was summoned to appear and show cause why he should not be arrested and detained as a civil prisoner in execution of that decree. In response, he filed an affidavit to oppose the application. Upon hearing the parties, the High Court granted the application. The court lifted the applicant's corporate veil and ordered the applicant to pay the decretal sum within 30 days from October 30, 2015, failure of which the respondent was at liberty to file the application afresh.  Having been aggrieved with that decision, the applicant filed the application for revision.