THE presence of the Tanzanian sprint and 800m race legend, Lwiza John Msyani at forefront of the NBC Dodoma Marathon launch last Sunday, promises to make it bigger than just a charity event. For athletics enthusiasts, having Lwiza at forefront of the launch, can give them a throwback to the days when ABSA Athletics series developed into a bigger global event, especially in the early 2000s when South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya had stiff competition in chasing 800m race gold medal. In 2003, Lwiza was among the athletes who set three national records in the Women category of the ABSA series track and field meeting staged at the PUK McArthur Stadium, Potchefstroom in South Africa. The named aggressive front runner, Lwiza clocked 2 minutes 01,12 seconds to win the 800m in a new Tanzania national record. She improves on her the record of 2.01.63 which she set during the Commonwealth Games in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in 1998. After ABSA Series drill Lwiza went on to beat the 2 minute barrier when she clocked 1:59.58 during a competition held in Yokohama in Japan. In 2003, she won gold medal in Afro-Asian Games, a month after winning a bronze medal in All-Africa Games of 2003. She is a highly respected athlete, and her presence in the launch can be a blessing. The same year she won gold medal in East African Championships, It was her second gold after her first one in the 2001 as a 200m runner. While Lwiza conquered the women discipline, the launch of NBC Dodoma Marathon, to athletics pundits, at horizon it was a throwback to the men’s 800m race of early 2000s that deeply involved South African legend Mbulaeni Mulaudzi, Kenyan Wilfred Bungei and Tanzanian Samwel Mwera. Mulaudzi inspired the 800m legend Caster Semenya, who was among Mulaudzi’s disciples. She said when Mulaudzi died in 2014. “Just lost a brother, a friend very good friend! There is high hopes that NBC Dodoma Marathon will be expanded into a bigger event if sponsors NBC decides to work the way ABSA did in South Africa as ABSA is majority shareholder of NBC. In 2000, South African financial services group Absa Group Limited acquired a majority stake in NBC. The Government of Tanzania retained a 30 per cent shareholding and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, took up 15 per cent shareholding in the bank. The new entity became known as NBC Limited. Lwiza John and the President of Athletics Tanzania(AT), Anthony Mtaka were present when the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) officially launched ‘NBC Dodoma Marathon’, in Dar es Salaam on Sunday in in cooperation with Athletics Tanzania. We expect to see a lot in the race which has been slated to take place in Dodoma on November 22. Though the organisers said the race is geared towards backing the fight against cervical cancer in Tanzania, what we hope the best from it is promotion of athletics in Tanzania. The launching ceremony brought together various government officials and athletics stakeholders including AT officials, National Sports Council senior officials, NBC’s senior officials and the media. Theobald Sabi, the NBC Managing Director, stated that much as his bank has aimed at investing in the sport via the ‘NBC Dodoma Marathon’, cash to be raised at the race will be channeled to the fight against cervical cancer via the Ocean Road Cancer Institute. The cash, he disclosed, will be accrued from participation fees which will be paid by athletes. The ‘NBC Dodoma Marathon’, therefore, will be a good platform for spreading the knowledge on this disease, which we are told that it can be treated whilst at the early stage,’’ he disclosed. The ceremony had the NBC signing a contract worth 300m/- with AT for sponsoring the race for five years. “It is our vision that the ‘NBC Dodoma Marathon’ will be promoting the bank in the coming years, and for that matter we are determined to continue backing this race for five years,’’ Sabi noted. “It is our hope our investment in athletics will be spent wisely and consequently bring success to our athletes and our country in future,’’ he added. Anthony Mtaka, AT president, congratulated NBC for opting to invest in promotion of athletics domestically. He also disclosed the NBC sponsorship gears towards making the race one of its kind and win international recognition. “The ‘NBC Dodoma Marathon’ will have four races, 5km, 10km, 21km and 42km. We have seen to it all routes will be measured by an internationally acclaimed race route measurement expert, who is recognised by the World Athletics, given we want to see to it the race is recognised internationally,’’ he disclosed. The AT official stated the decision to host the race in Dodoma put several reasons into consideration. He disclosed the reasons include the region’s view, which is quite attractive to the runners, roads’ arrangement which sees to it athletes run safely.