CCM Presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli, surprised Kizwite residents in Sumbawanga at the weekend when he made a loud phone call to the party’s Parliamentary candidate Aish Hilaly, promising to end water woes and other problems afflicting them. Residents who had gathered at Ndua Primary School playing ground in Kizwite Ward in Sumbawanga Municipal Council, Rukwa Region, listened to Dr Magufuli’s call connected to a public address (PA) system as the presidential candidate wooed votes from them. “I’m very familiar with Kizwite Ward. That is the area where citizens face water woes and roads are not good. When I visited Sumbawanga last year I promised to address water woes to some areas where water supply services have not reached the citizens,” Dr Magufuli said. He added: “I allocated more than 480m/- to resolve a water shortage in some parts of Sumbawanga. I beg you to elect CCM candidates, including CCM candidate for Sumbawanga Urban Constituency Hilaly so that they can help the fifth phase administration in overseeing the implementation of the party’s manifesto soberly... If you do so I will release more funds to address water woes and improve road infrastructure in your area. Please, do so,” he emphasised. Mr Hillaly contested for Sumbawanga Urban Constituency for the first time in 2010 and emerged victorious and he was seeking re-election for the third term. Mr Hilaly urged the electorate to vote for Dr Magufuli as he was the best leader. He deserved to be re-elected for the second and last term to enable him fulfil his ambitious development agenda. “In the first five years of his presidency, Dr Magufuli, initiated a number of flagship projects that he must accomplish. Vote for him so that he may accomplish his mission,” he emphasised. He humbly asked the electorate to elect the ruling party’s candidates for councillorship so that they could supervise the implementation of the CCM party’s manifesto. He pledged to ensure that the remaining few villages were electrified through REA project if re-elected.