INTERNATIONAL runners from the East African countries including a powerhouse Kenya are expected to take part in the Dodoma International Marathon scheduled for November 22 in the Tanzanian capital. Athletic Tanzania (AT) Information officer, Tullo Chambo said yesterday that the race is to be certified by the Association of International Marathons and Distance Races (AIMS) whose official Gavin Wright was expected to land yesterday from South Africa. Chambo said that Wright will today arrive in Dodoma to certify the running tracks at the weekend to give them the international recognition. The certification will be meaningful to the local and international runners as their timings will allow them to earn invitations in the other international races. Chambo said that several foreign runners have shown interest to participate with a big number coming from Kenya and Uganda. Kenya and Uganda have traditionally been featuring runners in the domestic tournaments competing against local runners. Among highly profiled local runners expected to take part include Alphonce Simbu, who finished fifth at 2015 London Olympic Games and won accolades in several other international races. “We would like to see a big number of local and international runners take part in this gruelling event that will promote their career,” said Chambo. He said AT and NBC have jointly organised the race, thanks for the regional Dodoma government to give their full support and make it a success. Participants will compete in the full marathon ( 42.195km), half marathon and 5km fun run for elders, children and those with ambition to run for healthy matters. The race will on the other hand be part of a ‘training ground’ for the runners intending to take part in next year’s Tokyo Summer Olympic Games. The games which were initially expected to be held this year, were postponed to next because of Coronavirus pandemic. Simbu competed in among major events, the New York Marathon, he is among those qualified for the 2021 Olympic Games and the Dodoma International Marathon will be a crucial event for him to test his strength against World class runners from Kenya and other parts of the world.