CONTRACTORS Registration Board (CRB) has urged local contractors to be creative to attract more clients for the construction tenders, instead of complaining about foreign companies’ dominance in construction industry. The call was made in Arusha by the CRB Registrar Rhoben Nkori, when opening the three days training of business management skills for local contractors organized by CRB for northern zones contractors. The training attracted over 96 contractors from Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Manyara, Tanga, Dodoma, Singida and Mwanza to equip local contractors improve their standards. Nkori said without improvement, creativity and joint ventures when implementing construction projects, local contractors will remain observers while foreign companies secure big construction tenders. He said construction is a business like any other business so contractors must value their profession by observing standards they have signed in their contract with their clients. “Find the connection in district councils and Tanroads so that it can be easy for you to get tenders, every business has its challenges so don’t give up,” said Nkori. Meanwhile, the Registrar said local contractors have been improving their work and there a lot of evidence of good work they have done when implementing different government projects something that disqualify the perception that local companies cannot perform big projects with standards. The moderator of the training, Prof Prosper Ngowi said the competition within construction industry is increasing so he urged local practitioners to improve their standards and be innovative in their daily activities if they need to remain in the construction market. Prof Ngowi said to be local contractor is not a criteria to get tender anywhere but the only way to compete with foreign companies in tender competition that can be done by improving their standards in projects implementation. “We must speak the truth in order to change and improve our companies because no one will come and give you construction sites only because you are local contractors, your competence and good records is the only thing that will lift you up,” he said.