TANZANIAN lawyer Albert Msando has termed allegations raised by the US based lawyer, Robert Amsterdam regarding the country's democratic space as baseless and unsubstantiated. On 23 October this year, Amsterdam through his Law firm Amsterdam & Partners, which also represents Chadema’s Presidential Candidate, Tundu Lissu on legal issues, circulated on social media, a letter which was purely a continuation of a series of attacks against the Tanzanian government. In his response, Mr Msando trashed the claims--terming them as baseless, unfounded and unsubstantiated as they were only meant to create unnecessary tensions. “You are creating tensions and are planting seeds of violence after the 2020 October elections disguising it as a cry in the wild for democracy and against violation of human rights,” read part of the letter. According to Mr Msando, the allegations mentioned in the letter by Mr Amsterdam are clearly intended to tarnish the image of Tanzania before the international community. “They are further intended to pre-empty the outcome of an election that is yet to be held. You are calculatingly interfering with the electoral process by leveling allegations that are baseless, unfounded and unsubstantiated so as to undermine the integrity, independence and impartiality of electoral institutions,” he said further. Expounding, Mr Msando noted that what the foreign law firm was trying to achieve was nothing other than to discredit and to downplay the efficiency of Tanzania’s electoral process and the capacity of the Judiciary to scrutinise the electoral process. Regarding the arrest of opposition leaders, government’s use of the police to intimidate the opposition and targeting journalists and the press, the Tanzanian lawyer  reiterated that no one is above the law and political leaders should not break the law just simply because they are opponents of an established regime. “As long as a law has been legally enacted by the Legislature it remains a good law. Attempts by the opposition leaders and other activists’ groups have failed in Courts of law to invalidate laws that you claim are repressive,” noted Mr Msando. In doing so, he maintained Tanzania has remained steadfast in honouring its international commitment to respect human rights, rule of law and good governance, however, the government should not be threatened to absolve itself from its fundamental duties, protecting its citizens and sovereignty of the state. Mr Msando reminded Amsterdam to understand that efforts that are being made by the current leadership to instill accountability, curb corruption, protect the country's resources against plunder and gear the country towards economic independence, cannot be thwarted by threats and allegations that are baseless and unsubstantiated. “The government under the leadership of President John Magufuli, State institutions and the Tanzania citizens who wish well for their country shall enviously guard and protect the peace, which has become our unique identity across the world, our historical heritage and our sovereignty,” he insisted.