CCM Presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli yesterday beseeched Zanzibaris to elect Dr Hussein Mwinyi for the isles presidency, describing the youthful candidate as a development icon. "If you indeed need development, vote for Dr Mwinyi," President Magufuli told a mammoth campaign rally at Mnazi Mmoja Grounds here, adding: "Whoever opposes Dr Mwinyi is fighting against you (Zanzibaris), they are envious of your eventual social and economic prosperity." He illustrated Dr Mwinyi as the best presidential hopeful with whom they can smoothly work with to maintain the Union and protect the January 12, 1964 Zanzibar revolutions. He termed the 56-year union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar as a product of "Our visionary leaders; our geographical proximity; our people's historical relations; and our parties' (TANU and ASP) friendly ties even before independence." However, Dr Magufuli brushed aside as malicious claims that under the union, Zanzibar is losing, economically. He cited a myriad of development projects, including road construction, water supply, industries and power supply that have been executed in Zanzibar under the union-secured loans. "The union government has in the past 40 years taken over 2.3tri/- loans to finance development projects in Zanzibar ...don't listen to those political liars," Dr Magufuli said of the opposition candidates, who preach Zanzibar's total independence from the union government. He further ridiculed the opposition's provincial policy, which he portrayed as a 'divide and rule' technique by the neocolonialists to "dive us and grab our resources." President Magufuli canvassed for votes for CCM candidates, saying CCM is the only party under whose leadership the country's unity, peace and tranquility will thrive and remain strong. He assured his readiness to work closely with Dr Mwinyi if elected the eighth Zanzibar president to solve all the social, political and economic problems that haunt the islanders. Dr Magufuli guaranteed Zanzibaris that the country's oil and gas were their own resources as is the case for gold in the mainland, adding: "And, Dr Mwinyi is the most appropriate person to trust your wealth with...I personally know him, very hardworking, polite and honest." He said the union and Zanzibar governments intend to procure eight fishing ships-four for Zanzibar and four for mainland-to exploit the 2.5trillion/- fishing industry with huge employment potential. Earlier, President Magufuli commended his Zanzibar counterpart, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein for the great social, political and economic feats during his 10-year tenure. Dr Magufuli cited economic growth and tourist arrivals as well construction of economic infrastructure like roads, airports and ports as areas in which Dr Shein scored highly. At the platform, the Zanzibar presidency seeker promised massive economic transformations for Zanzibaris if elected in the October 28 general elections. He pledged to explore the blue economy, which he said has great potential of creating jobs and earning the country more foreign currencies. Dr Mwinyi asked for support from his union counterpart in the execution of huge development projects, including construction of port, roads, a referral hospital as well as supply of water and electricity to all islanders. However, the CCM presidential aspirants belittled as misleading claims by opposition that Zanzibaris have no access to deep sea water fishing, saying: "Deep sea fishing is a union matter and its regulator (Deep Sea Fishing Authority) is headquartered in Zanzibar." He said the industry's accrued revenues are shared between the authority itself, the union and Zanzibar governments at 50, 30 and 20 per cent, respectively.