LEADERS from Zanzibar ACT-Wazalendo political party, led by their presidential candidate, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, yesterday officially launched their party's manifesto in the Island. Mr Hamad told journalists that they are well prepared to move Zanzibar forward economically, socially and politically. “People in Zanzibar should expect the best from ACT-Wazalendo government if elected. Most of the policies and laws will be reviewed and reformed to pave the way for smooth economic growth, social cohesion, and autonomy,” further Mr Hamad said. He said the manifesto was drafted by some key and influential personalities in the party, led by former Zanzibar Attorney General, Mr Othman Masoud as a consultant, adding that they also used the Zanzibar (1984-amended) constitution as a reference, as required by constitution (sections 8-10, directive principles). Job creation, improved health care, better education, 'acceptable' union between Zanzibar and Tanzania Mainland, are some of the promises, Mr Hamad pointed out as being contained in the manifesto, under the theme "Better life with enjoyment for all citizens." The 73-page manifesto comes 22 days before the General Elections on October 28th, 2020, where their additional pledges included reviving the Government of National Unity (GNU), demand for more say on foreign affairs and sharing resources under the union, and strengthening the separation of power. Speaking at its launch in North of Stone Town, Mr Masoud also mentioned seriousness and warned against corruption, including seeing into it that they empower the 'Zanzibar Anticorruption and Economic Crime Authority (ZAECA), and establish Human Rights commission, Decentralization policy, and e-government. “We will also have reforms at the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC), and establish an independent Public Service Commission aimed at playing fairness to all in employment and promoting accountability with the civil service and review investments carried out by the Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF),” he said. He said other issues in the manifesto will include improving the cloves’ industry, liberalizing media freedom, improving the judiciary and infrastructures, and protect the environment. The list also included demanding equally shares for Zanzibaris in the Union, especially raising it from the current temporary 4.5 per cent to 11.5 per cent. Also in the manifesto it will review income tax as regards trade and business in the union matter, and ensure Zanzibar handles its oil and Gas natural resources independently.