THE impressive 163  score grossed by Prabriv Singh helped to brighten this year’s Arusha Open Golf tournament climaxed here over the weekend at Gymkhana course. The two-day golf tournament has been labeled a huge success by golf stakeholders, including the winner Singh. Staged at Arusha Gymkhana Club course, the tournament brought together 107 golfers under the sponsorship of Reliance Insurance. Speaking after being awarded with a trophy and other presents, Singh said golf requires great skills in teeing off and putting, and it is a good bodily exercise one round of 18 holes may cover almost 20 kilometres. The winner also thanked the sponsors, and called for other stakeholders to lift the sport so that Tanzania can shine internationally. The Claims Manager with Reliance Insurance, Joel Mwakalebela, said the company believes in sports, particularly in golf as it requires concentration and enough exercise. He noted that since starting sponsoring such events the company has got great mileage in business. Mwakalebela said that is part of its social corporate responsibility. The company has also been linking up with National Microfinance Bank (NMB) to stage Marathon race in Dar es Salaam that attracts many people. Reliance Insurance Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Ravi Shankar said he learnt that golf is highly interesting and entertaining game that brings many people together and make friends. He pledged to carry on sponsoring the annual event. Reliance Insurance Deputy CEO, Rukia Goronga applauded players and stakeholders, calling for parents and guardians to bring to the game more children, adding that it is time that Tanzania starts producing its own ‘Tiger Woods’. Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) Deputy  President, Enock Magere insisted on incorporating juniors in the game, having permanent trainers for free to the juniors and ensure that international golf rules are observed. He said that he wants to see Arusha well represented in the national team and is part of the TGU Order of Merit. One of players from TPC, Ally Mcharo said he gets a lot of support in the sport from the Arusha Golf Team, building his mind and body, as well as facilitating social gatherings that are important in life and getting connected to many opportunities. He called upon other regions to introduce the game, as so far it is just about five regions that enjoy it.