OUR   country’s  election   laws,  Act  (no. 1  of  1985)  and  the  Local  Authorities (Elections) Act  (no.  4  of  1979);  provide    that  where,  upon  the  designated  closing  time,  there  is  only  one  candidate  who  has  returned  the  requisite  ‘nomination  forms’  to  the  Returning  Officer,   and  if  no  objection  is  raised  against  such  candidate  within  a  period  of  twenty  four  hours  thereafter,  such   candidate  shall  be  declared by the relevant Returning Officer to have been“elected unopposed”. This  has  been  a  familiar  occurrence   in  our  electoral  history,  both   of  general  elections  as  well  as     of  by-elections  at  the  Parliamentary  and  Local  Authorities  level;   when   CCM  candidates  in  a  number  of  constituencies    and  Wards  were   declared  by  their  respective  Returning  Officers  as  having  been  elected  unopposed.    This   has  also  featured  prominently  in   this  year’s   forthcoming  October  parliamentary  and  Local  Authority  elections    in  which,   immediately  after   the closing  hour   on  nomination   day,   25th  August,  2020;  information  was   widely  circulated  in  the  social  media  platforms,    to  the  effect  that  CCM  had obtained  a  windfall   of   18  parliamentary  seats  in  constituencies  in  which  its  candidates  had  been  elected  unopposed;   plus   some   450  Local  Council   members,   who  had  also  been  elected  unopposed  in  their  respective  wards. This  was   before  the   objections  to  the  said  nominations   had  been  raised,  and  determined   by  the  National   Electoral  Commission.   But   even   after    all  the  objections  had  been  dealt  with   and  finally  determined;    8   CCM  candidates  were  confirmed    by  the  Commission  as  having  been  validly  elected  unopposed;  plus  two  others,   who   also  became  unopposed  as  a  result  of  their  Opposition  contestants’  voluntary  withdrawal  from  the  race. However,   the  basic  concern   of  this  article  is  not  about   the   numbers  of  unopposed  candidates.   It   is   all   about   the   ‘ingenious’   paradox,   that   is   involved   in  such   unopposed   election  outcomes. The  Oxford  English  Dictionary  defines  the  word  “paradox”  as  “a  situation  that  has  two  opposite  features,  and  therefore  seems  strange”.   In  relation  to  the  phenomenon    of  ‘candidates  being  elected  unopposed’,  the  paradox  arises  because,    on  the  one  hand,   such  outcomes  have  the  positive  feature  of  satisfying  the  requirements  of  the  electoral   laws  cited  above.  But  on  the  other   hand,  they  also  have  the  negative  feature  of  disenfranchising  the  electorate  in  the  affected   constituencies.  This  is  clearly  bad,  because  it  creates  a  serious  ‘democracy  deficit’  on  our  democracy  landscape. The   principal  purpose  of  this  article,  is  to  draw  attention  to  this  ingenious   paradox. The   paradox  of  unopposed  election  candidates This   paradox  was  first  identified  by  Mwalimu  Julius  Nyerere,   who    then  took   what  were  considered  to  be  the  most  appropriate  corrective  measures,   in  the  prevailing  circumstances  at  the  material  time. The  month  of  October  of  every  year,   is  normally our  “ month  of  remembrance”   of   Nyerere’s    death  on  14th  October,  1999;  This  being  the  month  of  October,  2020;   I  will  take  this  opportunity,   for  the  benefit  of  our  younger  generation,  to    make  a  presentation  on    Mwalimu  Nyerere’s   leadership   endeavours   in  this  regard  during  his  lifetime;    as  a  way  of  paying   continuing  respect  to  our  departed  father  of  the  nation. For,   although  Nyerere  is  gone,  his  ideals  must  be  kept  alive,   so  that  they  may  continue  to  inspire  our  nation.    Indeed,  as  that  Scottish  historian  Thomas  Carlyle  (1795 – 1881)  said  in  his  book  titled   “Heroes  and  Hero-worship” :  “No  great  man  lives  in  vain.  The  history  of  the  world  is  but  the  biography  of  great  men”.   Undoubtedly,   Mwalimu  Nyerere  was  one  such  great  man,  and  this  narrative  should   preferably  form  part  of  his  biography. For  Mwalimu  Nyerere,   the  matter  of  candidates  ‘ being  elected  unopposed’   was  a  serious  issue  of  disenfranchising  the  voters;    as will  be   narrated  in  the  paragraphs  that  follow  here  below. An  ingenious  paradox The  idea  of candidates  being  declared  to  have  been  ‘elected unopposed’  was  an  invention  of  the   legal   pundits  of  colonial  times.   Because  it  surfaced   even   during  the  first  two   pre-independence parliamentary  elections  which  were  held  under  the  supervision  of   the   British  colonial  Administration   in  Tanganyika  in  1958/59  and  1960;  when  many  of  the  TANU  sponsored  candidates  were  declared  to  have  been  elected  unopposed,  in  the  face  of  stiff  competition  under  the  obnoxious   ‘tripartite  voting  system’. For  the  1958/59  parliamentary  election,   a  total  of  ten  constituencies  had  been  created  by  the  British  Administration,  for  which   the   Authority  had  decided  to  hold   in  two  separate  phases,  with   five  constituencies  holding  their   election  in  September  1958,  and  the  remaining  five  in  February   1959. The  reason  given  for  this  arrangement  was  that  these  elections  could  not  be  held  throughout  the  country  at  the  same  time,  because  “ it  was  too  great  an  administrative  undertaking”.  (compare   this   with  the  first  post-independence  general  election  of  1965,  which  was  easily  held  throughout  the  country  in  all  the  107  constituencies  on  the  same  day).    In  both   phases,   most  of  the  TANU  sponsored  candidates  were  elected  unopposed,  despite   the   stiff   competition  from  two  other  participating  political  parties :  the  United  Tanganyika  Party (UTP)   and  the  African  National  Congress (ANC). The  scenario  of  TANU  sponsored  candidates  being  ‘elected  unopposed’  was  repeated  in  the  1960  pre-independence  parliamentary  election;  in  which  as  many  as  58  TANU  sponsored  candidates ,  out  of  a  total  of   71  constituencies,   were  declared  to  have  been  elected  unopposed. This  was,  of  course,  very  good  news  for  TANU,  for  it  saved  the  party  a  great  deal  of  valuable  time,  as  well  as  resources,   which  would  have  been  spent  on  campaigning  and   mobilising  votes  for  its  candidates.    And,  for  the  same  reasons,  it  was   similarly  good  news  for  the  candidates  themselves;  and  for  the  Government;   which  also  saved  money  which  would  have  been  spent  on  organising  and  managing  the  entire  election  process. However,     Mwallimu    Nyerere  the  democrat,   felt  that  these   outcomes  were  bad  for  democracy;  and   decided  that,  after  independence   such   system  must  be  changed,   in  order  to  do   away  with  this   undemocratic  disenfranchisement  of  the   electorate   which,   he   strongly   felt,   was  creating  a   serious   deficit  in  the  country’s   democratic  dispensation. According  to  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s   own  statements,   it  was   abundantly  clear  to   him,  and   indeed   to   many  other  political  observers,   that  this  particular  situation  was  created  by  TANU’s    massive  popularity   and    unchallenged  support,   among  the  people  of  Tanganyika;   plus  Nyerere’s     own   personal  charisma,  and  his   general  political   appeal  to  the people. This   latter  aspect  became   clearly  manifested  during  Tanganyika’s  first  Presidential  election  which  was  held  in  November  1962,  in  preparation  for  the  country  change  from  its  then   (British)   Dominion  status,  to  a  Republic.    That  election  had  two  participants:  Mwalimu  Julius  Nyerere  sponsored  by   the  Tanganyika  African  National  Union  (TANU);    and  Zuberi   Mtemvu,  who  was  sponsored  by  the  African  National  Congress (ANC).    Mwalimu   Nyerere’s   election    victory  was   far  in  excess  of  95per cent. Nyerere’s  solution :  the  introduction  of  a  single-party  system We  stated   earlier,   that  the  negative  effect  of  candidates  being  ‘elected  unopposed’   was  the  disenfranchisement  of  the  voters    in  the  affected   constituencies.    This  defect  was  distinctly   noticeable  because   the  pre-independence  general  elections  were  confined  only  to  Parliamentary  elections. This  was   vastly    different  from   the  current  practice;  wherein   a  general  election  consists  of  three  distinct  elections,  namely    of   the   President,  of  the  members  of  Parliament,   and  of  the   members  of  the  Local  Authority  Councils.   Thus,  in  today’s  circumstances,    It  is  practically  impossible   that  all  three  aspirants  will  be  elected  unopposed  in   any   given  constituency. Thus,   where  an  aspirant  for  membership  of  Parliament   is  unopposed,  voting   will  still  take  place  for  the  other  positions.   Consequently,   the   question   of   ‘disenfranchising   the  voters’,   does  not  arise. It  should   not  be   a  matter  of    surprise  therefore,   that  in  those  circumstances,    it   became   a  major  issue  of   concern  for  Mwalimu  Nyerere;   for  the  reason  only  that   it  denied   the  people  concerned,  their  democratic  right  of  selecting  their  leaders  through  the  ballot  box. It  is   primarily   for  that  reason,   that   Mwalimu  Nyerere    considered  it  necessary  to  find  a  solution.   It  should  be  remembered  that  at  that  time,   Tanganyika  had  a  multi-party  Constitution.   Thus,  as  a   result  of  the  1960  pre-independence  general  election,   with  TANU  having  won   70  out  of  the  71   seats   available   in  the  Legislative  Council;   the  country   had  been  turned  into  a  de  facto   one-party   state.  The  worrying  factor for  President  Nyerere,  was  the  fact  that  the  voters  in  58  of  those  71  constituencies,   had  been  disenfranchised;   because  their  MPs  had  been  elected  unopposed. It  was  this  latter  fact,   that   led  President    Nyerere   to  the  conclusion  that   democracy  would  be  better   served,   if  the  people  were  allowed  to  choose  from  several  competing   TANU   candidates. He  said  thus:    “ We  have  to  dispense  with  the  disciplines   of  this   multi-party  system.   I  would  say  that  such  disciplines  are  not  only  unnecessary  in  our  prevailing  circumstances,  but  that  they  are  bound,  in  time,  to  prove  fatal  our  democracy”. Hence,   having  reached  that  conclusion,  he  then  set  out  to  establish   the   mechanism  for  achieving  that  particular  objective. The   appointment   of   the  ‘One-party’   Commission. President  Nyerere  was  sworn  into  office  on  9th  December,  1962,  the  first  anniversary  of  the  country’s  independence.   And   very  soon  thereafter,  in  January  1963,  the  TANU  National  Executive  Committee,   under   Nyerere’s   chairmanship,    passed  a  special  resolution  recommending  the  introduction  of  a  ‘single-party’   system  of  government. In  implementation  of  that  resolution,    President  Nyerere   soon  appointed   the  Commission,  which  was  placed  under  the  chairmanship  of  Vice-President  Rashid  Kawawa.   The  Commission  worked  diligently  until   22nd  March,  1965,  when  it  presented  its  Report  to  President  Nyerere;  who  then  submitted  it  to  Party’s   National  Executive  Committee  for  consideration,  after  which  it  went  through  the  normal  legislative  process.    Ultimately,  the  One-Party  Constitution  was  enacted  on  8th  July,  and  became  effective  from  10th  July,  1965. President  Nyerere  was  determined,  that  the  envisaged  one-party  Constitution  must  create  a  properly   functioning,  democratic  State.  Thus,  when  he  appointed  the  Commission  which  was  tasked  to  prepare  the  proposals  for  this  Constitution,  he  also  issued   certain  specific  directives  and  guidelines  regarding  the  principles  of  democracy,    which  that  Commission  was  required  to  incorporate  in  its  proposals.    This  was  successfully   accomplished,  as  evidenced  in  the preamble to  that  Constitution,  which   read  as  follows:- “WHEREAS   freedom,   justice,  fraternity  and  concord,  are  founded  upon  the  recognition  of  the  equality  of  all  men,    and  of  their  inherent  dignity;  and  upon the  recognition  of  their  rights    to  protection  of  life,  liberty  and  property;   to  freedom  of  conscience,   expression,  and   association;  their  rights  to  participate  in  their  own  Government,  and  to  receive  a  just  return  for  their  labour;   AND  that  when  men  are  united  together  in  a  community,  it  is  their  duty  to  respect  the  rights   and  dignity  of  their  fellow  men;  to  uphold  the  laws  of  the  State,  and  to  conduct  the  affairs   of  State   in  such  a  way  that  its  resources  are  preserved,   developed  and  enjoyed  for  the  benefit  of  all  its  citizens,  and   to  prevent the  exploitation  of  one  man by  another; And  WHEREAS   Such  rights  are  best  preserved  and  protected;  and  such  duties  ar  most  equitably  disposed  in  a  democratic  society  where  the  Government  is  responsible  to  a  freely  elected  Parliament  representing   all   the  people;   and  where  the  courts  of  law  are  free  and  impartial;    NOW  THEREFORE  this  Constitution,  which  makes  provision  for  the  Government  of  Tanzania  as  such  a  democratic  society,  is  hereby  enacted  by  the  Parliament  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania”. This   is  an  important   part  of  our  political  history. (will  continue  next  week) piomsekwa@gmail.com /0754767576.