BENARD Morrison saga is back on the local sports pages and electronic media and it does not seem the saga would disappear until CAS comes out with a verdict on who is the really owner of the Ghanaian player and entertainer. When the saga first appeared my personal verdict was that I wanted CAS to rule in favour of Young Africans so as to drive one sense into Simba Sports Club management the importance of hunting for their own players locally and internationally. Yes, I said I wanted Young Africans to win because I was personally sick and tired of these games which revolve around what has come to be referred to as fitina (throwing spanners in the works) instead of concentrating in the development and growth of the game. Such games made sense in 1960s and 70s when Tanzania’s participation in continental soccer tournaments were very minimal and not today where soccer has been transformed not only into science but also requires players to be more knowledgeable than kicking around the ball on the pitch. If Simba lose the saga it means two things. One, they would be required to pay a very hefty fine and secondly they would lose points on all matches in which they fielded the Ghanaian. If that comes to pass, the verdict would have provided Simba management with a lesson not to do again what they did. It is only when such verdicts are made that our clubs would learn how to produce their own players, locally, and whenever they want foreign players, they would go for such players themselves rather than depend on players who have been recruited by their arch rivals. What Simba should have done was get Morrison, if they really wanted the player, was to get Morrison after he had been dropped by their arch rivals. For our local clubs to avoid being embroiled in Morrison sagas they need to invest in soccer development through establishment of soccer academies. For instance, for a club like Azam FC which has already established such structures what they now need to do is get coaches that are trained specifically for handling such children from their tender age. Soccer academy is a very good business venture if local clubs, and in particular, those endowed with money can plunge into it. For in the end they can produce players not only for their own use but also for selling to other clubs. Clubs like Egypt’s soccer giants, Aly Ahly and Zamalek got where they are today because they have for the past four decades invested heavily in soccer academies. This explains why Aly Ahly have won the Champions league more than 12 times and the same thing can be said about Zamalek. There were stories this week to the effect that the leading Egyptian soccer club had entered into agreement with Simba Sports Club to establish a sports centre in Dar es Salaam. Although we are yet to get the nitty gritty of what was really agreed on between the two soccer clubs, but I’m quite sure the two want to establish a soccer academy. The Egyptian club appears to have noted Tanzania’s soccer talent galore and decided to invest in the establishment of a soccer academy in order to tap into such a reservoir of soccer talent. Let us not forget that two Tanzanian soccer players were recruited by Egyptian clubs in the last three years, Himid Mao and Shiza Kichuya and they Egyptian may have noted the two players and realized that although they had not gone through any soccer academy they could have been better players if they had gone through such a system Himid Mao is still in Egypt but Kichuya is back. And this is the difference between Tanzanians and other countries. While we tend to take things for granted, other countries don’t. They work on what they see in us. That is why as far back as 1970s, countries like Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe recruited numerous experts not from United States of America and Europe but from Tanzania. Flyovers in Botswana have been built by Tanzanian engineers. At one time all districts and regional medical officers in Namibia were manned by Tanzanian medical doctors. When Zimbabwe got its independence in 1980, all its telecommunications engineers who were mostly whites packed and left the country, leaving the newly independent country without any link to the outside world. But within one week, the yawning void was filled in by over one hundred telecommunication engineers from Tanzania. If Tanzania managed to provide highly trained experts to Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe and other countries in Africa why can’t we produce soccer players from our soccer academies instead of fighting for foreign trained soccer players?