SOME time in 1996, Mr. Bernard Ndunguru Kapesi secured a contract for his advertising firm with the then Serengeti Breweries, as an official advertising agency for the brewing firm. As an official advertising agency, Century Advertising company, was also tasked to manage a National nomination committee for entrants to the Guinness World Records. I happened to be a member of the nomination committee under Mzee Kapesi. Other members included Gabriel Nderumaki, former Managing Editor with Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN). That was the first time I met Mzee Kapesi, shortly after relocating from Kenya when he retired from his previous job with Unilever. We used to meet once every month in search for exceptional Tanzanians who have done something extraordinary to merit appearing in the Guinness book of record. I remember one of interesting days with Mzee Kapesi in September 2007, when we met at the then Sheraton Hotel (now Serena). We had a heated discussion on whether a woman who killed a lion single-handedly somewhere in Mkururanga,  in Coast Region deserved to be included in the Guinness Book. Mzee Kapesi disagreed, arguing that it was normal and a common knowledge that Africans live with wild animals and therefore killing a lion is not a big deal. We, on our part, argued she was a heroine and deserved to be included in the book. He eventually agreed and the woman was included in the Guinness World Records. We became closer with mzee Kapesi when I met his son, Sunday, at the University of Dar es Salaam. We became friends despite a big age difference and what brought us together was Sunday's volunteering spirit to the community works. We were able to do a lot for the community works through a Community Action Group, that Sunday was a pioneer at the university. Last month I met Mzee Kapesi for a chat at YMCA in Dar es Salaam. He gave a long narration how his business has been transformed from Century Advertising to Suchi and Suchi. In short we had an exciting moment with Mr Kapesi and we were later joined by Peter Keasi, former TSN colleague and longtime friend. Surprisingly Peter Keasi and Mzee Kapesi hail from neighboring villages in Ruvuma Region. They were so excited to meet, and it was hugs and cheers when they were mentioning things that happened back at home. We were not sitting in a restaurant or a hotel, but rather at a road side closer to YMCA in Dar es Salaam. Later after a few days passed, I realized Mzee Kapesi was bidding farewell to me and Peter. Mzee Kapesi was one of the earliest Tanzanians to own a well to do advertising firm. He gave public relations, marketing and advertising a new definition and minced no word to those who tended to mix the three. After learning some theories at the university about marketing, advertising and public relations, I used to go to his office at the city centre to challenge him. I had different views on the concept of advertising versus public relations, and would always tease him that he was supposed to establish a public relations company rather than an adverting agency.He had a certain fashion of expressing the difference but I don't think I understood him. His was an astonishing observer " the corporate world understands what they want but they may not be competent to articulate and manage media campaigns and other remedial dose." He used to term "marketing" and "public relations" as input, while at the same time terming "advertising " as an output most needed as a naked solution. He used to say advertising is what most of the corporate world wants as a solution rather than marketing and public relations. Tanzania has lost one of the most respected pioneers of advertising and marketing business in Tanzania. I have lost a father, a friend and a mentor and a man, who for the last three decades fashioned and guided me to appreciate and venture into Public Relations as a business. May the almighty God rest his soul in eternal peace, Amen.