TANZANIA’s promising striker Kelvin John ‘Mbappe’ said he was happy to be included on the list of 60 young talents in world football published recently by one of London’s leading newspapers The Guardian. The Guardian’s published article was titled: Next Generation - 60 of the best young talents in world football. However, the multi-talented striker, who is a reliable future treasure for the nation as far as football is concerned, is currently sharpening his playing skills at Brooke House College Football Academy in London. Speaking in a telephone interview, Kelvin said it is a big honour for him to be listed in the big newspaper together with other 60 young players generated from different parts of the world. “First of all, I thank God for making this possible and this is a challenge for me to work extra hard to achieve more things bearing in mind that I have many years to play football. “Apart from the excitement, this is a morale boosting chapter for my football career as I have now gained extra fighting spirit to showcase more than what I previously had. “What I need to do now is to respect my timetable and since I have appeared in The Guardian newspaper, I want my name to appear in other big newspapers from different parts worldwide,” he said. He then named some of the legend football players in the country like goalkeeper Juma Kaseja, striker John Bocco as well as Mbwana Samatta as individuals who have helped him a lot to reach his current level. He briefly elaborated on his football journey saying his focus to go further was cemented upon arriving at The Football House in Mwanza where he stayed for two weeks before he was called to join the national team Taifa Stars. “My first trip to Europe was not that easy but to the other side, I was excited because I knew that I was getting close to fulfill my dreams of becoming a great football player. “What I want to say to other Young players who have dreams to reach far with their careers is that they should highly be disciplined in all aspects of life while at the same time, they should be patient and hopeful for the great things,” he said.