THE Exim Bank Tanzania has pledged to further digitalise its financial services and bring more innovative products on the market to serve customers better. In a bid to mark the customer service week, the bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Jaffari Matundu and other senior managers visited branches, engaged with customers and observed how they were being serviced by the bank’s staff. “This week allows Exim Bank to actively engage with our customers. Positive and strong relationships with our customers remain core and this initiative shows our drive to realize this in so many ways,” he said in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Mr Matundu commended the bank’s staff who continue to work tirelessly and relentlessly to satisfy the bank’s esteemed customers, while also appreciating customers for their loyalty over the years. “We are constantly looking for new ways to serve our customers better, provide smooth banking experiences, deliver excellent financial services and inspire growth among our customers,” he said. He said Exim Bank would continue to focus on initiatives that will continually meet the needs of its customers. In a related development, the bank’s Manager of Customer Service, Mr Frank Matoro restated the bank’s commitment to excellent service delivery to meet the needs and aspirations of its customers. “It is important to highlight and appreciate the value of excellent service delivery in regard to our customer experience and needs, it is a key ingredient towards building strong financial institutions in the country,” he added. During his visit to some of the bank’s customers in Dar es Salaam, accompanied by other senior officials from the bank, Mr Matoro used the opportunity to showcase some of the digital and innovative self-service options offered by the bank. “To make transactions more efficient and convenient for our customers, we have a number of options in facilitating easier transactions including mobile banking, bouquet of cards, vast POS network, as well as online banking via web or app, where our customers are able to access services and perform transactions,’ he said.