ON Thursday night this week, Ivory Coast held Belgium to a one all draw in a FIFA date organised friendly match played in Belgium. I watched the entire match from the comfort of my sitting room and the West Africans gave a very good account of themselves. From the way both teams played, it was difficult to find out between the two which team was on top of the Fifa global ranking. At present the Belgian national soccer team is the Fifa’s top team in the world football organising body’s top 50 teams which ironically do not include Ivory Coast! But despite being out of Fifa’s top 50 national soccer teams, the West Africans gave the Belgians a run for their money and they were unlucky not to have scored more than one goal. The Belgians failed to show the world why they were number one out of Fifa’s top 50 teams and there were massive reasons for that. One, almost the entire Ivory Coast national soccer team was made up of players who are currently playing in Europe. For instance, in the English Premier League alone there were seven players and these were Zaha (Crystal Place), Pepe (Arsenal), Aurier (Tottenham Hotspurs), W. Boly (Wolverhampton Wanderers), E. Bailly (Man United), J. Seri (Fulham) and J. Gbamin from Everton which is presently perched at the top of the English premier league table. All the foregoing seven players played for their national team on Thursday night and the rest of the players come from first division of the European league. And this explains not only the one all result but also why the west Africans were not, in any way, intimidated by the Fifa’s top team. What does this mean in terms of our own national soccer team, Taifa Stars who are expected to play another FIFA date friendly match against neighbours, Burundi on Sunday? Had our Taifa Stars had more than seven Mbwana Samattas playing in the top flight European league, we would not have been paired against Burundi which according to Fifa rankings, they are below Tanzania. But instead Fifa would have organised a friendly match against one of the top placed European nations. It is important to note that these Fifa organised matches were mooted by the world football organising body for two main reasons; namely, one for providing training practice for national soccer teams and more importantly, for helping the global soccer organisation in ranking the teams. What this means is that by holding the Belgians to a one all draw in their own backyard on Thursday night this week, Ivory Coast which is presently not in the best 50 Fifa teams may finally get into the group of 50. The only African national soccer teams in the Fifa’s group of 50 are Tunisia (26), Nigeria (29), Algeria (35), Morocco (43) and Ghana (46) with the 50th spot being held by Bosnia and Herzegovina. When the Fifa’s organised friendly matches in all the five continents are completed, those who had not done well in the group of 50 would be demoted below the group and those which did well by beating or holding teams in the group of 50 would be promoted to the group. And because Ivory Coast have already given themselves a very good account of themselves by holding the top Fifa team to a one goal draw, their fate would be decided in the second round of friendly matches against another top, Fifa ranked team. But if you take another glance and the Fifa’s first group of 50, you would find that notable absence include powerful African soccer nations like Egypt, Cameroon and Senegal. The foregoing three countries can only get into the Fifa’s first group of 50 soccer nations only if they do well in their current and next round of Fifa’s organised friendly matches. But what becomes of our Taifa Stars who are presently lodged at 134th and this coming Sunday they are pitted against Burundi who are lodged at 149th which is 14 teams below Tanzania? If you look critically at the pairing, you would note one important thing. The pair is actually designed to help Burundi improve their position. And they have been given that opportunity against their own fellow weakling, Taifa Stars because the latter failed to get above where they are when they were given such an opportunity against stronger teams. But if Taifa Stars beat Burundi on Sunday, they would have ‘qualified’ themselves to be paired in the next round of Fifa’s organised friendly matches against a stronger opponent. But make no mistake; Sunday’s game is going to be extremely difficult for Taifa Stars on two grounds. One they would be playing against a team whose some of the players take part in Vodacom premier league. Secondly, they are being coached by a Burundian and that does not augur very well for players whose ability is not very much different from their Burundian counterparts. The only edge Taifa Stars are likely to have on Sunday is the presence in the team of two superstars, Samatta and Simon Msuva who announced his intention to put some of his money into boxing in order to help the most exploited (by the so called promoters) sportsmen and women in this country. However, when all is said and done, this country will never get to where countries like Tunisia, Nigeria, Algeria, Morocco, Ghana and now Ivory Coast are until and unless they turned, en masse, into soccer academy as the main ground for preparing their future soccer stars. The six above countries got where they are because they stopped their reliance on street produced players.