NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars fired blanks as they suffered a 1-0 defeat at the hands of visiting Burundi in an International FIFA date friendly match at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salam yesterday. An 85- minute strike by Saidi Ntibazonkiza frustrated the home side, which finished the game with a man down after holding midfielder Jonas Mkude was shown red card for a second bookable offence. The defeat means that Taifa Stars Head Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije has to work hard to sharpen his squad, especially the striking force that lacked a good coordination. It was important for Taifa Stars to win the match, not only to seek for the promotion of the FIFA rankings, but also to test their fitness as they prepare for a double-header Africa cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier clash against Tunisia in November. The first clash will be held in Tunis on November 13th 2020 before the return leg to be played in Dar es Salaam a week later. It did not take a while for the match to heat up with either sides creating chances but Stars looked a side more likely to score. Playing before the presence of Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, Stars were left to rue and pay heavily for their ineptness, especially in the first 45 opening minutes, in which they threw away a couple of good scoring opportunities. The visitors showed stiff opposition throughout, threatening with Saido Berahino, who features for Zulte Waregem in Belgium playing as an isolated striker upfront. Simon Msuva, who features for Morocco top division side Diffa El Jadidi, lacked his usual sharpness in front of the goal, probably due to lack of match fitness. Morocco league was suspended for a while due to Covid-19 impact. Skipper Mbwana Samatta looked sharp but was well marshaled by Burundian defenders. Samatta, who has just joined Fenerbahce FC of  Turkey from English Premier League side Aston Villa was a constant threat making runs behind defenders and at some occasion taking a couple of defenders inside the box. Idd Selemani was the livelier of Taifa Stars attackers and in the 6th minute, the Azam FC wide man almost hit the target but goalkeeper was well placed to collect the ball. Samatta came close in the 16th minute but his side header narrowly sailed wide and in the 21st referee Martin Saanya ignored Stars players shout for penalty after Samatta was shoved down in the box. The striker raced to a Selemani’s pass, cut through two defenders but was bundled down. After half an hour mark Feisal Salum’s well driven shot outside 18 metres failed to hit the target. After the break, Stars maintained pressure but the story remained the same, wasting chance after chance. And, as time went by, the wave turned against the home team as Etienne Ndayiragije charges were reduced to ten men in the 75th minute when Mkude was sent out for a second bookable offence, after being involved into a fierce battle with Saidi Ntibazonkiza. Ndayiragije had to call out captain Samatta for Ally Msengi ten minutes to time in his efforts to reinforce the striking force. The changes didn't work out for Stars. Five minutes before the final whistle, Burundi, dubbed ‘the Swallows’ netted the solitary goal when Ntaziborane’s long range went into the net untouched. Taifa Stars made several other changes, calling in Mzamiru Yassin for Faisal Salum and Thomas Ulimwengu replaced Abdallah Sebo.