THE embassy of China in collaboration with the Chinese Contractors Association in Tanzania has donated 150m/- to the Tanzania National Parks Authority (Tanapa) for the procurement of fire fighting equipment. The equipment to be bought is meant to be used on containing fire that broke out on Mount Kilimanjaro and will mitigate damage to natural vegetation. Speaking at a handover event, Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania Wang Ke said the financial support was a clear reflection of the cooperation the two countries had been enjoying. “After the fire outbreak, we saw the necessity of us to help the government of Tanzania to deal with the fire outbreak. Therefore, the embassy has issued 50m/- and the remaining 100m/- is from the association of Chinese contractors,” she said. She added that due to the long standing history that “our two countries share in common, China has been supporting Tanzania whenever it faces any challenge.” She said even after the Kagera earthquake and during the Covid-19 pandemic, China supported Tanzania. Receiving the donation, Tanapa Northern Zone Senior Conservation Commissioner Herman Batiho said so far the fire outbreak had been contained by 95 per cent. “Right now there are some 300 people who are still monitoring the fire outbreak from the top of the mountain. So, they need modern equipment to deal with the outbreak. The money we have received will be used as intended,” he said. He re-assured that tourism activities hadn’t been affected by the fire outbreak on Mount Kilimanjaro, welcoming Tanzanians and foreign tourists to continue visiting the mountain also referred to as the ‘paradise of climbers’. Mr Batiho noted that the authorities were still investigating the source of the fire outbreak, which had damaged large areas of Marangu, Manda and Horombo. Speaking on fire adverse effects, the Tanapa senior officer said the fire outbreak had killed a variety of species such as snakes, insects and birds. Recently, Tanapa spokesperson Pascal Shelutete told a press conference that the fire had destroyed about 95.5km2 of vegetation on Mount Kilimanjaro. He noted that the area that had been destroyed represented 5 per cent of 1,700 km2 of the mountain.