EVERYTHING is in place and the immaculate course at exotic Sea Cliff beach course is beckoning golfers to showcase their skills. It is CEOs Luxury Retreat Golf Day heading to brighten Zanzibar again. The one-day tournament, which was previously moved to November 28 this year, will now tee off on November 14 at the same venue, according to the club’s manager Elias Soka. Soka told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Zanzibar that preparation are almost complete and the entry fee has been reduced from 80 US dollars to 40 US dollars. He said the annual event is organized by Sea Cliff Resort Golf Club and the decision to reduce entry was initiated by the event’s sponsors. According to Soka, the prestigious tournament is open for ladies and gents, CEOs and diplomats from around the global. “We are grateful to all sponsors who bankrolled our event, most of them have been with us in several tournaments, their good respond help preparation and is behind entry reduction,” he said. Soka named the sponsors who have lately inked their support as Park Hyatt Zanzibar, Moelectro, Sayona, Kiboko Plastics and MELIA Zanzibar. They join other associate and title sponsors who are Johnnie Walker, Sea Cliff Resort & Spa of Zanzibar, ZMMI Wines & Spirits, Sea Cliff Court Hotel & Luxury Apartments, Auric Air and Cape Town Fish Market. However, Soka said they still have exclusive sponsorship opportunities available for the event and that the door is open. According to him, registration for the Luxury Retreat Golf to be played in a stable ford format has started as the event is open all for golfers wishing to participate. “We invite golfers from Zanzibar, Tanzania Mainland and all over the world to come forward and register for the competition. Golf carts are available at cost of 20 US dollar, “ he said. Among other reasons, Soka said the tournament also aims to boost the country’s tourism sector. Since its introduction in 2015 in Zanzibar, the club has done a commendable job in promoting tourism in the Isles.