IT looked like all Zanzibaris had converged at the Mnazi Mmoja grounds, despite the scorching sun to welcome and listen to Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli, in Unguja's central business district yesterday. Beaming with enthusiasm, Dr Magufuli said: I couldn't hide this excitement…I have attended many rallies, but I have never witnessed this level of turnout. And, the good thing is the colours-green and yellow-that I love most demonstrating. Truly, Zanzibaris have decided this year, and thank you for your decision.” Indeed, green and yellow colours dominating the Unguja streets yesterday, with "Chagua Dr Mwinyi," and "Chagua Dr Magufuli," placards decorating the entire city, be it on buildings, walls, trees, electricity poles, vehicles and any other structure that could hold them, Zanzibaris welcomed the CCM presidential candidate with big heart. And, "Chagua Dr Mwinyi" and "Friends of Mwinyi" inscribed T-shirts and caps were seemingly the universal city uniform, majority of the motorists and motorcyclists either carried CCM placards and flags or played CCM campaign songs, especially the party favourite reggae by Zuchu. Entrepreneurial as they are, the islanders took advantage of the event to sell whatever could attract money for them-soft drinks, bites, fruits, CCM-coloured shirts and dresses and Dr Mwinyi's badges. The most attractive spectacle was Dr Magufuli invitation of a young lady, who complained over the illegal grabbing of her deceased mother's plot at Chukwani suburb to the high table. President Magufuli ordered CCM Deputy Secretary, Zanzibar, Dr Abdallah Juma Sadalla to leave a seat for the youthful lady. "We are here begging for votes because we want to address people's problems," said Dr Magufuli, while directing the relevant authorities to solve the issue, "And, I will make follow up." After his speech, the presidential candidate moved to the artists' stage, where he joined Zuchu to dance the party's favourite reggae dance by the young girl. Dr Shein, Dr Mwinyi and other dignitaries as well joined him on the stage dancing. Zanzibaris had started gathering at the rally grounds as early as 7am ahead of the official resumption of the meeting at 11am and as they trooped in, renowned artists, including Nasib Abdul (Diamond), Ally Kiba and Nandy were on stage to entertain them. All the CCM heavyweights, including Vice-Chairmen for Zanzibar and Mainland, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein and Philip Mangula, respectively; Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally and his deputies for Zanzibar and Mainland; Second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, former Zanzibar and Union President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, among others, attended the rally. Welcoming the presidential candidates, Dr Shein described the third-phase Zanzibar President and second-phase Union President Mwinyi's son as highly disciplined, polite and hardworking individual. "Dr Mwinyi is gifted; he has all the qualities to make a good president for Zanzibar," Dr Shein told the cheery audience. However, he cautioned Zanzibaris against making a mistake of trying unqualified people for the sensitive job. "It's dangerous to give the presidency on trial basis to incompetent, greedy and arrogant individuals," he further counselled. He campaigned for the youthful candidate, saying: "Under Dr Mwinyi Zanzibar is heading to social and economic prosperity...I have done my part but I can assure you, Dr Mwinyi will do more."