MINISTRY of Defence and National Service, through the Tanzania Peoples’ Defence Forces (TPDF) has recorded tremendous achievements over the past five years, ensuring peace and tranquility prevail. Notable feats include steering the country’s industrialisation drive, improving training for army and military officers as well as participation in various social and economic activities in the country. The ministry attributed the TPDF’s achievements due to good policies and supportive environment set by the fifth phase government under the President, Dr John Magufuli. According to the ministry, other successes include coordinating and supervising various military training courses in schools and military colleges in and outside the country. “The army provides soldiers with pre-requisite training and development in various leadership disciplines to keep pace with changes in science and technology,” the ministry said in a statement reflecting on TPDF’s performance in the past five years. It is revealed in the statement that the Monduli-based Tanzania Military Academy (TMA) has established a Bachelor of Military Science, and that the training conducted locally has been done with great skill and competence by the officers and soldiers, where in five years approximately 20 trainings have been conducted. The Defense Force has also continued to strengthen cooperation with other countries, especially the East African Community, Southern African Development Community (SADC) and friendly countries in peace and security issues in various areas such as training, technical assistance, equipment, tools and machinery. “The TPDF has continued to receive training assistance from China, Egypt, the United States, Germany, India, Russia, the United Kingdom, Morocco, Canada, Indonesia and Jamaica,” noted the ministry. The Tanzanian army has continued to work with regional and international communities in peacekeeping operations under the auspices of the African Union (AU) and the United Nations (UN) to bring peace and security to countries in conflict and unrest. During the same period, the TPDF has developed Nation Service (JKT) training for youths and also increased the number of new camps. The camps include Mpwapwa (Dodoma), Kibiti (Coast Region), Makuyuni (Arusha), Itaka (Songwe), Luwa Rukwa, Milundikwa (Katavi), Mbweni (Dar es Salaam), Kanembwa and Mtabila (Kigoma), the Defence and National Service portifolio revealed. Also, the ministry in the relevant period has continued to provide medical services by improving medical equipment and medicine for officers, soldiers, Civil Servants, their families and the general public at the Army General Hospital-Lugalo, Mbeya Regional Hospital, Mwanza and Zanzibar. “Other issues that the army has participated in include assisting civilian authorities in dealing with various disasters including floods in various regions, earthquakes, especially Kagera Region accidents, piracy and other emerging disasters,” recalled the ministry. In implementing the industrial economy, the ministry has continued to provide development funding for research and technology related to Mzinga and Nyumbu Corporations with the aim of procuring quality and sophisticated tools at low cost. Under the auspices of Mzinga Holding Company Limited, a subsidiary of the company dealing with trade and investment, the Corporation has continued to produce crops for the use by state security organs.