CHINA has expressed its satisfaction with the ongoing election process, saying there have been smooth and orderly campaigns since August 26, this year. China Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Wang Ke said during her special visit to Julius Nyerere Leadership School in Kibaha, Coast region that her office is satisfied with the way the election processes are going, and that they look forward to free and fair elections in a few weeks. Ms Wang along with Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally visited the college located at Kibaha kwa Mfipa as part of preparations for the commemoration of 21 years since the demise of the father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. The 90bn/- college has been constructed by six political parties that participated in the liberation of Southern African countries. They include CCM, Mozambique Liberation Front (FRELIMO), Zimbabwean African National Union- Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) African National Congress (ANC) and People's Movement for Liberation of Angola (MPLA). She said China expects a free and fair election and that her country stands to respect each countries' internal affairs. She said Tanzania is a land of peace and tranquility, and that China hopes to see peaceful and fair elections in the forthcoming elections. "Tanzania has the capacity to conduct peaceful elections. Tanzanians will make their own choices," she said. Ms Wang insisted that Tanzanians are expected to elect their leaders of choice who are capable of uniting them for mutual development. Commenting on the college, the Ambassador said the institution sets a platform for political parties to strengthen their relationship, work closely by sharing experiences and learning from each other. She said China friendship and relations with other countries stands on four major principles, which are complete equality, true independence, non-interference and respect between countries. The construction started on July 16, 2018. According to CCM Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally, the construction of the modern college has been completed and that it will be officially launched any time from now. “The project is already completed, but we have delayed the launch due to some challenges caused by Covid-19. We are therefore looking forward to opening it when our fellow leaders will be able to travel from their countries," he said. Dr Ally said CCM has been in power for so many years because of a strong foundation set by Mwalimu Nyerere. He said the college will enroll students from political parties that believe in Pan Africanism, adding that it is a public institution that will enroll people from public institutions as well. He expressed his appreciation to CRJE (East Africa) Limited Company which constructed the college, saying the company has a unique record of building special and historical projects in the country. "CRJE constructed TAZARA, which is popularly known as Freedom railway from Dar es Salaam to Zambia, it also constructed Mwalimu Nyerere Bridge in Kigamboni, Nyerere Square and now Julius Nyerere Leadership School," he said. Earlier on, the project coordinator, MS Emannuela Mtakatifikolo said the project created over 3,000 jobs. She said 3000 people were employed as technicians and laborers, and that 30 women entrepreneurs benefitted by selling food to the workers at the site. "A few months ago this place was busy, food vendors were everywhere making money," she said. She added that the project has also facilitated the connection of electricity, supply of water and construction of a tarmac road in the area.