ZANZIBAR has huge potentials of oil and natural gas, with the just released exploration findings estimating the reserve at 3.8 trillion cubic feet. President Ali Mohamed Shein told reporters on Friday that the Full Tensor Gradiometric and twodimension (2D) Seismic surveys have pointed out to the existence of rocks with likely oil and natural gas reserves in Pemba-Zanzibar block. “The outcomes of all these surveys have indicated Petroleum System Elements (PSEs). For sure, this is good news and we all have to thank the Almighty God,” Dr Shein said at the State House-hosted press conference. The president further said the full tensor gradiometric exploration has indicated oil and natural gas reserves in three areas—Makoongwe island, South of Pemba; Tumbatu island, North West of Unguja; and in the Indian ocean, East of Unguja. He said the results of the 2D Seismic survey have indicated five areas with high possibility of oil and gas reserves in the Pemba-Zanzibar block. He identified the areas as the oceanic area between North East of Unguja and South of Pemba islands; North, South and East of Unguja; North West of Unguja; North West of Pemba; and South of Pemba Island. “Generally, these areas have signified existence of rock structures, with gas reserves amounting to 3.8 trillion cubic feet. The possibility of succeeding to discover the gas reserve during well drilling is 30 per cent,” he said. Dr Shein hinted on the possibility of increasing gas discovery from 30 to 45 per cent upon completion of the 3D seismic technology-based exploration. After registering the initial promising discoveries under the two surveys, Dr Shein said more exploration works will be conducted to ultimately harvest the extractive resources for the benefit of all Zanzibaris. He said the initial reports, which indicated unsatisfactory quality will be re-exported for detailed examination; while exploration works will continue on shallow water on specific areas that have elements of oil and gas. Well location will then be identified ahead of commencement of the first exploration drilling, Dr Shein said. “Your government’s good will in handling the oil and natural gas exploration is becoming visible because the outcomes of the surveys are giving us hopes of oil and gas discoveries in Zanzibar,” Dr Shein said, adding that the outcomes have enticed an investor— RAK Gas—to sustain the gas exploration works in the ocean. He, however, asked the islanders to remain patient, saying it may take more time before they start benefiting from the resources. “It takes at least six years since the commencement of the exploration work to actual discovery and use of the resources,” he said. The president assured Zanzibaris that the government is determined to ensure that the economic benefits from the extractive resources contribute to the national economic growth for the benefit of all wananchi without discrimination.