GEITA Gold Mining Limited (GGML) and Rafiki Surgical Mission has donated an ambulance to Bukoli Health Centre in Geita District in order to save lives by responding on time to emergency calls. The two organisations jointly donated an ambulance worth 32m/- to Bukoli Health Centre in Geita District. Speaking during the handover ceremony at Bukoli village in Geita Region, GGML Vice-President- Sustainability, Simon Shayo said the vehicle will serve patients in Bukoli Ward and the entire region, who require urgent medical attention from the institution. “The Geita District Council requested an ambulance from GGML to help the Bukoli community patients, who have limited means of transport to reach Geita Referral Hospital for medical referrals, which is about 35 kilometres to Bukoli. Partnering with Rafiki Surgical Mission in response to their request….we have approved it in our dual commitment to support health initiatives in Geita,” said Shayo.

For almost 20 years, besides donating medical equipment, the Geita Gold Mining Limited in collaboration with Rafiki Surgical Mission have extended medical care to children and adults in the region, who suffer from unrepaired cleft lip and palate by providing them with free surgical treatment.

Elaborating, Mr Shayo narrated how GGML had been historically supporting the Bukoli Health Centre since 2004 with the construction of an Outpatient Department building and health practitioners’ staff houses. He said the company has also been funding several health projects, including the renovation of Geita Referral Hospital and construction of new dispensaries in Nyamalembo, Nyakahongola, Kasota and Kakubiro in Geita District, all valued at 1.8bn/-. Last year, GGML donated some medical equipment worth142m/- to Katoro and Bukoli healthcare facilities. Presiding over the event, Geita District Council Executive Director, Ali Kidwaka praised the contribution of the mine in addressing health challenges in Geita region, saying: “I also call upon other partners in Geita District to work with the government in a similar way.”