AS the nation holds the General Election today, Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC) Brigadier General Marco Gaguti has called upon the residents to maintain peace throughout the exercise. He said all necessary logistics for the general election had been finalised, appealing to eligible voters to turn out in big numbers and cast their votes peacefully. He assured the residents that security was guaranteed and appealed to Tanzanians to ensure that the election is conducted in a peaceful environment for the nation thereafter engage fully in socio-economic developments. Brigadier Gaguti equally, warned them to avoid electing people into power, who use money to buy votes, noting that such people are politically bankrupt. “Tanzanians should remain united and should not allow political differences to divide them. Voters should use their constitutional rights to participate in the election, but also to uphold peace. Each one of us has the responsibility to ensure that peace and tranquility prevail during the general election and laws obeyed. “Tanzanians should be on guard and report people with bad intentions, who would want to divide them and plunge the country into chaos. We should elect committed leaders who are ready to serve people diligently,” said the RC. He noted that it was saddening that most parts of the world are engaged in fighting and result into millions losing lives as a result of polls, saying: “We should unite in celebrating this occasion. Tanzania, one of the most peaceful and politically stable African countries, offers an attractive investment climate, a rich and diverse natural resource base and a growing consumer market. “It’s these widely acknowledged factors, which make the country a darling of foreign investors and multinational companies.” The RC further said that all eligible voters should report at their respective polling stations to cast votes and thereafter return home peacefully. “The law requires every voter to leave the polling station after casting his/her vote. People will not be allowed to stay at any polling station,” he said. Elaborating, Brigadier Gaguti noted that vulnerable groups including people living with disabilities (PLWD), the albinos and those with difficulty in hearing will get priority on voting day. “Blind people will be provided with tactile ballot folder while those who are deaf will be allowed to be accompanied by a family member to assist them in the polling booths. A total of 1, 412,008 eligible voters in the region were listed in the voters’ register,” he said.