AZAM have rubbished transfer rumours that their lethal striker Prince Dube intends to join the Moroccan giants Raja Casablanca in a deal worth 2.3bn/-. Azam’s Communication Officer, Thabit Zakaria who briefed to the press on what circulated in the media, said Raja Casablanca have not yet brought the deal to the club for negotiation and hence that should remain just rumours. He noted this after their 3-0 victory over Mwadui FC in the Premier League at Chamazi Complex, Dar es Salaam. Whereas, Prince scored the team’s second goal in the 61st minute of the game before assisting his team mate Zambian Obrey Chirwa who netted a brace during their sixth league match. Apart from an outstanding performance displayed on Thursday, Dube has managed to score six goals in six games he has played since the beginning of the season, which is equivalent to one goal per game. He is a vital player for Azam, as his goals helped the team to claim the pilot seat after leaving behind Simba who have tied with their traditional rivals Young Africans on points. Azam have won six matches consecutively, earning 18 points while their rivals Simba and Young Africans have tied with 13 at the second and third positions respectively. Zakaria confirmed, “We haven’t received any formal offer from Raja Casablanca and we contacted his agent who also confirmed that he didn’t receive any offer for his player and we as a club we can’t afford to lose him now since his absence can damage our team’s machinery.” He further explained, “We have heard of the price they want to pay us for him and the sum is really huge, but we can’t accept it since the transfer window has been closed so it will be hard to replace him. “If they are serious about him they should wait until the coming min transfer window then we will be willing to open negotiations and once the terms are reached they will have him”. The 23-year old striker scored 20 goals in his last 21 competitive games for club and country, making him one of the game’s deadliest forwards on the continent.