SIMBA SC skipper, John Bocco has assured fans that his team will come back stronger to regain prowess in the remaining rounds of the Premier League matches after recently hiccups. A towering Bocco, who has recovered from injuries to feature for the club in their 0-1 defeat to Ruvu Shooting, played well despite the loss. Bocco, who didn’t play when Simba suffered a similar 1-0 loss to Tanzania Prisons last Thursday, said that on behalf of his fellow players, he as captain, apologises for the poor results. “We had bad results in our two previous matches, we promise to our club fans that we will regain our form in the coming matches," he said. Simba will face Mwadui on Saturday at the Uhuru Stadium. The club’s official website also showed the players’ concern for the poor results and the skipper promised to return to their normal form. Simba won five consecutive matches without a loss prior to facing both Prisons and JKT Ruvu Shooting. “We humbly ask our fans to stand together with us to make everything better again,” said the club. “During a happy time, during a bad time, we stand together as Simba Sports Club,’ insisted the club. The club’s Information officer, Haji Manara said that losing matches in the early stages of the league is very minor as Simba had such a record in two previous seasons but eventually managed to win the title back-to-back. “Two years ago, we were beaten up by Mbao FC in the early rounds and last season we again lost to Mwadui and we were told that we could lose the battle for the title, but at the end of the race we won the title,” said Manara. As things turned sour to the defending champions, their rivals, Young Africans have had all the reasons to smile after winning crucial points. The former champions beat KMC 1-0 to close in the gap with league leaders, Azam FC, who succumbed 0-1 to Mtibwa Sugar of Morogoro at the Jamhuri Stadium, though are ahead of Yanga with just two narrow points. The ice cream makers have garnered 21 points, ending their seven-match unbeaten run. Yanga have thanked their supporters for cheering up the team in the recently matches’ triumph. “You have been at the forefront in supporting your loved club,” “Let’s continue doing that till we achieve the goal,” said the club. Yanga are under tutelage of Burundian Cedric Kaze, who led the team to two recently crucial wins since in his reign after taking over and jump up to the second slot as Biashara United are third with 16 points as Simba are fourth with just 13 points. Yanga are currently in training to prepare for their unpredictable Saturday’s match against high flying Biashara United. The match is predictable to be tough considering to the fact that Yanga will be seeking three crucial points to overtake league leaders, Azam FC, who are not amazed by their defeat to Mtibwa, but promises to beat JKT Tanzania this Friday at their home Chamazi Complex. Azam also boasted that losing to Mtibwa was not the end of the league and remain health considering to the fact that they are still on top of the standing. Yanga will also aim at widening a big gap with other title challengers and rivals, Simba Sports Club. However, The Jangwani boys should not expect an easy run in the match considering to the fact that Biashara United need those three points cling up more on the standing. 