MS Esther Matiko has made history by becoming the first woman member of parliament for Tarime urban constituency in Mara region, proving that women can be elected leaders even in regions that were known to embrace male dominated system in the past. She won the seat in 2015 general elections through the opposition CHADEMA ticket. Before that, Matiko was a member of parliament for special seats from the same political party. “People had a notion that a woman cannot make it, but I am now the light to show that women are capable. And I currently receive many invitations to attend various national and international meetings,” Ms Matiko told Woman Magazine in an exclusive interview at her house in Bomani area recently. She says that she has been solving every problem that is directed to her, be it conflicts or social matters. “I have been the representative of this area and I have done my best to solve conflicts, and I believe I have represented Tarime urban well,” Ms Matiko says. Her top priority, she says, is to push development agendas in Tarime Urban with provision of social services in areas of health, education, roads and electricity getting top priority. Despite the fact that she was a member of parliament from the opposition, Ms Matiko says she enjoyed good cooperation from the government whenever she approached ministers and other leaders in the fifth phase government on matters concerning development projects in Tarime. She gave an example of road network improvement in Tarime town as one of the greatest development achievements registered during her time as MP. “When I was elected in 2015, many roads were not passable in Tarime town, but now all street roads are accessible, and some roads, including Bomani, have been upgraded to tarmac level,” Ms Matiko says. On health sector, she says the government has improved health service delivery at the town council hospital by equipping it with modern ex-ray machines and building a modern laboratory among other things. “During my time, we have also built a new heath centre at Magena at a cost of 400 million shillings,” she says. On education, Ms Matiko said priority areas included construction of new primary schools and improving learning infrastructure in the existing public schools, both primary and secondary. “We have also distributed textbooks to all secondary schools in the constituency,” Matiko says. She says what is important is not being a woman or a man, but determination and hardwork to achieve one’s dreams. Ms Matiko says she was born and brought up in rural areas of Tarime (Nyabirongo village), where she used to walk to school, fetch firewood and water, and sometimes look after the family cattle(grazing). “Basically I am from a poor ordinary family, and I did all household chores, like fetching for wood and looking after cattle,” she says. The youthful politician studied her first degree in Human Nutrition and Home Economics at Sokonne University of Agriculture (SUA) in Morogoro, and later did her Master’s degree in finance and administration at the University of Dar es Salaam(UDMS). “I did my primary education at Susuni Primary School in Tarime, and my O'level at Msalato Girls in Dodoma, and high school at Nganza Girls in Mwanza,” Ms Matiko recalls. Matiko’s journey in politics began in 1993, and before that she was an assistant lecture at UDSM. Ms Matiko is seeking reelection for a second stint in the next general elections to be held in October 28 this year. She launched her campaigns on September 6 at Serengeti grounds in Tarime town. “It is now time to receive feedback from Tarime Urban people on what I did for them for five years, and so far the reception is good,” she says. If re-elected, Ms Matiko says she will put more efforts on improvement of water services and initiating economic development projects and sports development. “I have always dreamt to see Tarime Urban having a sports academy and a modern library,” Ms Matiko says. In the October 28th general elections, Ms Matiko is being challenged by Mr Michael Kembaki of CCM and Ms Mary Nyagabona from NCCR-Mageuzi. This means that the number of women contesting for parliamentary seat in Tarime constituency this time is bigger than men, thanks to the Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TNGP) for continuing to advocate for women’s participation in political posts and leadership in the area. TGNP has been organizing a series of workshops that brought together various stakeholders, including traditional and religious leaders and women to deliberate on obstacles that hinder women from vying for political posts in the region, with Tarime District getting top priority. Traditional beliefs are still cited as one of the things hampering women in Tarime and other parts of the region from turning up to contest for political posts. But Tanzania is rated as one of the African countries with a large number of women holding political posts.