LOCAL content in the country's major projects has received fresh impetus following new initiative to lease equipment to local subcontractors to boost their participation in the oil and gas value chain. The new initiative is a brainchild of the Association of Tanzania Oil & Gas Service Providers (ATOGS) and RentCo Africa, which is the Equipment and Asset Leasing Solution. The two institutions signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) yesterday in Dar es Salaam, which would see members of the business community, who want to enter into various projects, to be able to lease equipment from RentCo Africa. The initiative aims at addressing financial barriers that crippled local contractors in taking projects that required them to have huge capital for buying equipment for the works. According to Chairman of the ATOGS, Mr Abdulsamad Abdulrahhim, the leasing would empower the local contractors who now fail to secure tenders due to lack of capital to purchase machineries. The initiative is expected to boost participation of local sub-contractors in various projects including energy, infrastructure, engineering, security, facility management, and oil and gas projects such as Uganda-Tanzania oil pipeline project. "We know that conditions to secure loans from banks have been hampering the local contractors who seek capital to purchase equipment, but with this arrangement with RentCo Africa they would only be leasing equipment, which doesn't need them to have huge capital," Mr Abdulrahim stated in Dar es Salaam. He said bringing the RentCo was very crucial for making the private sector have access to equipment. "If a Tanzanian wants to participate in the project and doesn't have collateral or capital, he or she can come to the RentCo for leasing the equipment to use for a certain period of implementation of the project," he elaborated. Through the arrangement, the ATOGS believes that it would contribute to support President John Magufuli's target of producing many local billionaires during his leadership. Chief Executive Officer of the RentCo Group, Mr Robert Nyasimi, explained that with RentCo there were a lot of possibilities and empowerment to touch a common person through financing. "We work with commercial banks to provide innovative finance for equipment...to make local subcontractors participate more on the need of equipment and financial muscles," Mr Nyasimi said. Trade and Development Bank Executive Director for East Africa, Mr Lloyd Muposhi, said over the last two years the bank's commitment  and financing to Tanzania has increased and it is one of the lenders of the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). "But the key question here is how these big projects end up empowering the locals, this is very important," he stated, arguing that 80 or 90 per cent of revenues from the big projects in Africa go to Europe. Therefore, the new initiative was good to empower the local contractors. Commenting, Mr Focus Mrosso, CRDB's Bank senior Manager for syndication, said the bank has been supporting the government in developing local content by providing working capital to local contractors.