HIGH Court Judge, Dr Benhajj Masoud, has called on Legal Assistants of Justices of the Court of Appeal to judiciously use the knowledge acquired to handle election petitions and bring about positive change in the dispensation of justice in the country. Dr Masoud said this recently when winding up training of such judicial officers at the Institute of Judicial Administration (IJA) Lushoto in Tanga City. According to a statement issued by the Judiciary’s Information and Commutations Directorate yesterday, the judge told the participants that it was the belief of the people that the Judiciary was a place of justice, thus, they should be aware of the role they had in serving citizens. "I strongly urge you to refrain from corruption, reject corruption, denounce corruption and provide education when you have the opportunity and ability to do so on the effects of corruption on the entire electoral process," said Dr Masoud. He went on asking the judicial officers to work in accordance with the requirements of various laws, regulations and guidelines to discharge the duties assigned to the relevant judges on time and to best standards. When opening training last week, retired Chief Justice Mohamed Othman appealed to legal assistants to use their professionalism in assisting judicial officers to handle election petitions effectively and refrain from political bias. Mr Chande urged participants to pay close attention to election proceedings so that they could use the same in carrying out their responsibilities. "As legal assistants of the justices it is important to use your professionalism well and focus on competence in election proceedings and refrain from political fanaticism," emphasised Justice Chande. He urged the participants to observe ethics, seriousness and confidence when writing judgments, considering the fact that they were of great help to judges in discharging their judicial duties. On the other hand, the former chief justice commended the leadership of the Tanzania Judiciary and IJA in general for capacity building of various judicial officers in handling election matters. To date the judiciary in collaboration with IJA has already conducted training of judicial officers in handling election petitions, including Justices of the Court of Appeal, Judges of the High Court, Deputy Registrars and Resident Magistrates in Charge to enable them to handle cases well. Meanwhile, IJA Principal, Dr Paul Kihwelo, has reminded all resident magistrates in charge in the country to adhere to strict judicial procedures that follow democratic principles as an important pillar in handling election petitions. Dr Kihwelo urged them not to favour or oppress any party competing in politics in the general election. "The main purpose of the judiciary to prepare this training is to make judicial officers who will be assigned to hear election proceedings professionally, timely and transparently and fairly," the principal said.  He further urged the magistrates to stick to Article 113A of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, which prohibits court officials from joining any political party, except to have the right to vote. In addition, the principal asked them to review in detail the second part of the Local Government Elections Act (Cap 292) which has identified several criminal offences that they expect to receive, hear and determine without waiting for the Election Day. Dr Kihwelo, who is also a Judge of the High Court of Tanzania, mentioned some of the offences, including registering in more than one polling station, forging various documents, corruption, the use of other people's identity cards and many more. He insisted them to study laws, regulations, higher court cases, the Electoral Code of Conduct on the election process so that they could eliminate unnecessary complaints that may arise from decisions that did not adhere to the judicial work ethic.