ZANZIBAR CCM Presidential Candidate, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, on Thursday pledged to oblige investors to support development in host communities if he wins the general election. He said during his reign all investors would be obliged to support community development, including the construction of schools, health facilities and water supply infrastructure in the areas they were operating. The presidential candidate made the promise before small-scale entrepreneurs, hotel security guards and fishermen at Kiwengwa Village in North B District, Unguja. “The tourism sector is key to the country’s development. The sector’s existence must benefit all communities,” Dr Mwinyi said, stressing that it was unfair to allow investors to benefit from the country’s resources and leave the hosting communities wallowing in abject poverty. The presidential candidate said it was not a sin for investors to support development projects in the host communities. He assured security guards that if he won the presidency they would be given job contracts that provided for their rights and packages if they lost their jobs or retired. Dr Mwinyi pledged to establish a friendly and uniform tax and licence system for small-scale traders to pay levies and taxes as per their incomes. He also pledged the issuance of special identity cards, which would be paid for once annually. “I’m aware the government has spearheaded a process to issue IDs to every entrepreneur and have a special rate of tax payment, which will address all these nuisances,” Dr Mwinyi said in his response to people’s complaints. Earlier, a food vendor, Ms Zainab Hussein, complained about business impediments, citing excessive charges by the district council despite a poor business environment in which they operated. Dr Mwinyi sympathised with them, describing the motive behind his visit to the village as to “listen to your challenges and ask for your votes.” The ruling party’s flag bearer said: “I have heard your plight particularly tax. If I win the presidency, I will address it once and for all.” He said his intention to vie for the presidency was to ensure all people were fairly treated and turn Zanzibar into a free nation for all and nobody was at a disadvantage. Dr Mwinyi explained that in his envisaged administration, he would never allow any illegal act against hapless citizens be it by political leaders or public servants, reiterating his firm commitment to stopping all kinds of prejudice, which he termed as the “enemy of development.” Speaking to motorcyclists in the district, Dr Mwinyi promised to formalise their business and allow them to access credit facilities and insurance covers to protect them and their business. He asked entrepreneurs to vote for all CCM candidates in the October 28 general election.