THE Cube-Zanzibar has launched a one-year business start-up project for young people here, aimed at promoting and stimulating innovation and creativity, as critical characteristics of a successful society that manages to sustain economic growth. “We believe that business and entrepreneurship training is important to start-up success, but business incubation doesn’t stop there. Starting and running a business means overcoming challenges every single day,” Mr Rashid Mwinyi Rashid- head of ‘Cube-Zanzibar’ programme told journalists during the launch of the project. The project is funded by UKAid through its Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF ). He said that according to a 2014 study, unemployment rate among Zanzibar youth was 21.3 per cent, and through innovation and creativity, many youths are likely to get employed by opening up businesses. Mr Rashid said the programme was focusing on ideation, incubation and acceleration, and that through proper support and management, small businesses can become the engine of Zanzibar’s economic and social development. “We assist on what is needed by the entrepreneurs and offer our services as tailor-made as possible; we work according to a clear, easy to understand model; and we operate as clean as possible by focusing on effectiveness and creating leverage through partnerships,” he explained. On her part, Ms Wardat Mustafa- ‘Cube-Zanzibar’ Hub Manger, said that they were also providing employability training, business consultation, renting or to let venue and co-working space, and event coordination, She said since the formation of the ‘Cube – Zanzibar’ in 2018, they have implemented a two week incubation programme in cooperation with Nomu Hub Pioneering volunteers, and Health Innovation Solution Programme in collaboration with D-tree International and ADViMPACT. They also implemented “F ursa Kijani Project (Agribusiness); business scale-up training in cooperation with University of Dar es Salaam SM and University of Agder – Norway; soft skill youth readiness training (employability skills); and Innovation week 2020 in collaboration with HDIF. Young people who attended the launch ceremony like Mr Omar Hassan thanked the ‘Cube Zanzibar’ which is a start-up and business enabler that offers incubation services, financing and business acceleration support to start-up small businesses in Zanzibar. They also help young people bring ideas to life and get businesses to excel.