THE United Nations (UN) Secretary General António Guterres has called upon all political leaders and their supporters in the country to peacefully participate in today’s polls and refrain from violence. In a statement on Tanzania’s elections attributable to his spokesman, Mr Stephane Dujarric, Mr Guterres also appealed to all national stakeholders to ensure that the polls are conducted in an inclusive and peaceful manner. The statement to the media yesterday came as Tanzanians today vote for their President, legislators and councilors. In this regard, the UN top boss recalled that an inclusive electoral process and a broad effective participation of political parties and their candidates, particularly women, remain essential for safeguarding the progress made by the country in consolidating stability, democracy and sustainable development. He further requested the authorities to provide a safe and secure environment, which will allow Tanzanians to exercise their civil and political rights. The Secretary-General reiterated the commitment of the UN to support the country’s efforts to promote sustainable development and build a prosperous future. The African Union Commission (AUC) also called for peaceful elections in the country. The Commission’s Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat, appealed for peaceful, inclusive and credible polls. The Chairperson called on all stakeholders, political parties and their supporters to participate in the voting process peacefully and refrain from any acts of violence. He further urged the authorities to ensure a conducive environment to enable citizens to cast their votes in a safe and peaceful manner. The Chairperson recalled the commendable journey that Tanzania has traversed thus far towards building democratic governance and sustaining peace, and urged that today’s polls offer a renewed opportunity to deepen democracy and peace in the country. Head of the Mission of the East African Community Election Observer, former Burundi President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya urged the Tanzanians, candidates and political parties involved in the elections as well as the media and other actors to demonstrate behaviors that promote peace, security and stability. He however commended the Tanzanians for so far conducting themselves with maturity in one of the most vibrant election campaigns in the country’s history. “I trust that this level of dignity and peace will be upheld throughout the campaigning period, on Election Day and thereafter,” Mr Ntibantunganya stated. On its part, the Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC) urged Tanzanians to respect and listen to directives from the National Electoral Commission (NEC) which is a legal coordinator of the elections. Chairman of the TEC’s committee for peace and justice, Archbishop Jude Thaddaeus Ruwa’ichi and TEC Secretary General Father Charles Kitima appealed to Tanzanians to act on good intentions for the national interests as they insist on peace during the poll.