WOMEN have been encouraged to grab immense opportunities in the industrial sector in order to enhance their contribution to economic growth. The remarks were made in Mwanza City recently by the former Pan African President, Ms Getrude Mongella while addressing a women round table Tanzania to mark the International Girls’ day. The event was accompanied by trade exhibitions, where women manufacturers showcased their products and few imported goods. She said lack of courage and confidence denied women chances to hold high public posts and functions in the private and public sectors. However, she said the trend has changed now, with a huge number showing their abilities of holding and leading efficiently big organisations in various parts of the world. On her side, Nyamagana District Commissioner, Dr Philis Nyimbi who represented the Mwanza Regional Commissioner, said that the nation depends much on women involvement in development agenda, and therefore their participation in events was very important for national development. For example, she said if women get an opportunity to access loans, they can manage and grow their businesses to the highest level. Thus, she said through loans for youth, women and disabled persons from the councils, they can easily realise their dream to establish industries in the country. Dr Nyimbi urged on the need for empowering women by creating enabling environment to access loans at affordable interest. Also, she challenged women in the region to make efficient use of loans provided by the councils in order to invest in various economic activities. The Women Round Table Tanzania that celebrated five years since the forum was founded managed to bring together more than 300 women from Mwanza, Simiyu , Geita, Dares Salaam, Shinyanga and Mara regions. The Executive Director of Women Round Table, Ms Hadija Liganga said the aim of the event was to bring together women so that they can help each other in development issues facing them at the moment to achieve development.