“HELLO, where are you? Kindly make sure you are here on time, she has a tight schedule” someone was insistently saying on the other side of my phone the other day. I was on my way to meet the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation Tanzania (CCBRT), Ms. Brenda Msangi. I was there on time. CCBRT is a non-governmental organization serving mothers, newborns and people living with or at risk of developing disability. Upon reaching the hospital, the secretary led me to a well-kept meeting room, and at the door way stood Brenda, ushering me in, ready for the interview. “How long will it take?” she asked. “Not more than 40 minutes,” I answered.  She smiled and told me that she was rescheduling her activities for one hour, because she knew it will take more than 40 minutes.  My interview with this humble lady and a strict time keeper consumed a whole of 56 minutes. She has been at CCBRT for 11 years now.  Her hard work over the years has seen her at the driver’s seat of the institution since December 2018. It should be noted that Brenda is the first female and first Tanzanian to lead CCBRT. Before her current role, she held different senior management roles, including being the Chief Operating Officer of CCBRT. Her mark at the hospital is undeniably huge.  Brenda leads the transformational journey of CCBRT to become a healthcare Social Enterprise, serving the community and the most vulnerable with accessible, specialized services and development programmes. Apart from God’s grace, Brenda believes that she is where she is today because of the following attributes: commitment, persistency, consistency, humility, right attitude and having people who believed in her and provided her with opportunities. She strongly believes that success will always be on the horizon for any person valuing these traits. Change is visible when you enter CCBRT’s gate.  Expansion projects are going on, the environment is well-kept, and one can hear a queuing system calling out numbers made visible on a TV screen. New services have been introduced over the years at the hospital, which is well-known for dealing with preventing and treating disabilities in Tanzania. Today, CCBRT offers a wide range of services, both clinical and development programmes, bringing impact in the community. Specialized clinical services are provided from its subsidized wing, where patients receive these services at a highly subsidized rate (some being offered for free) whilst the private clinic wing provides a more comprehensive range of clinical services, including Ophthalmology, Orthopaedics, Internal medicine, Dermatology, Dentistry, Physiotherapy and Pediatrics, to mention a few. Brenda (40), was born and raised in Dar es Salaam.  Her father, Timon Msangi and mother, Theudas Msangi, had a big influence on her early childhood.  She remembers her mother saying: “They can take everything from you, but they cannot take your education and your knowledge.” She and her siblings were also reminded that a person is his/her own biggest investment throughout someone’s life. These are principles Brenda and her three siblings were raised with as they were growing up. She was schooled in Tanzania, starting at Oysterbay Primary School and did her O-level education at Jangwani Secondary School.  She was attracted to science from this time.  She got Division 1 and proceeded for her A-Level at the same school, and got Division 1 also, where she did Physics, Chemistry and Biology (PCB). Brenda used to love mathematics, a passion which started when she was in Form Two. She vividly remembers her Mathematics teacher, Mr. Burton, and a Physics teacher, the late Mr. Mkichwe as some of the teachers who had a huge impact on her love of science subjects. Her parents did not raise Brenda differently simply because she was a girl.  She was fortunate enough to be raised in a household of three girls and a boy, whereby she was made to believe that she can become anyone and choose any career path she wanted. “I am very grateful that I had that upbringing from my parents,” she notes.  Both parents were civil servants and are now retired. In love with Pharmacy Many who did PCB wanted to be doctors; Brenda did not.  She loved chemistry, and her father had a big influence on her. “When I was trying to find clarity on what to do after finishing my O-Level, my dad used to tell me about his background and how he loved chemistry and his ambition in that field” she reminisces. Even though father got into the world of marketing, he had already made a permanent mark on his daughter, and that was how Brenda began exploring on pharmacy and started developing interest to know more about it.  She decided to forge on and embraced pharmacy as her future profession. She did a foundation pharmacy course at Irwin College in the United Kingdom (UK), where she was the top student, and then enrolled into the University of Brighton, where she was awarded Masters of Pharmacy after a four year course degree. Brenda recalls her first employment opportunity after being registered by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain as a qualified pharmacist; she was tasked to manage a branch of Lloyds Pharmacy (a very well-known pharmacy chain in UK) in Worthing, UK. “I was young, in my mid-20s; and a foreigner”; and that is when her leadership journey began. This role required Brenda not only to be a practicing Pharmacist (working closely with other clinical teams) but also to oversee a smooth running of the pharmacy. After four years, Brenda moved back to Tanzania and joined CCBRT in 2009. Fifteen years later, Brenda pursued further studies; she is now a holder of Masters of Business Administration in Healthcare acquired from the UK based University of Plymouth. Championing Lean Management in Tanzania When it comes to leading, Brenda embraces the concept of “Lean Thinking” and according to her, an easy way of describing this concept is continuously improving by ‘removing waste’ in whatever we do. Examples of waste in this aspect can be in the form of excessive motion, excessive inventory, waiting time, overproduction and over-processing, amongst others. According to this concept, famously used by automobile industry processes in organizations/companies, no matter how mature they are, they can still be improved. “You never stop making improvements. Whenever you make changes to any process for improvement, you’ve just created a new standard” Brenda, saying that there is always room for improvement,” says the CEO, adding that CCBRT embraced this approach as part of changing the organization’s culture. Bringing in that same lean thinking in healthcare, CCBRT management as a whole focus on purpose, people and processes, and according to her, the approach has had a huge positive impact so far. “Unfortunately, most education systems have made people believe that they can only do what they are told to do without challenging their leaders (constructively), and that the boss is always right. I always challenge that!” Brenda notes. According to her, the boss is not always right. The boss’ job is to ask the right question(s) to provoke and encourage teams to think so as to come up with solutions. The management is investing on people’s thinking. “We are striving to create a management system where staffs feel empowered to make decisions and solve problems,” she explains. The institution’s management is striving to create a pool of critical thinkers to help solve problems. This concept enabled CCBRT to change some of its processes, and by doing so, some of the functions have been combined in order to reduce “waste”. This also brought about breaking the “silo” mentality of working. “I can assure you, this is not an easy task” Brenda added whilst smiling. Her views on the country’s healthcare system The CCBRT leader believes the country’s healthcare system has made progress, but still has a very long way to go, and suggests that as a country, we can learn a lot from Lean Management. “There is always room for improvement. How can we increase efficiency? How can our healthcare system be patient-centered one?” she challenges. Also, a whole understanding of individual motivation of self-care should be seriously considered. “We are spending a lot of resources into treatment while we could have spent less if people could have taken care of themselves. We are seeing more and more cases at CCBRT, whether its eye complications or amputees needing artificial limbs, mostly caused by Non-Communicable Diseases,” she added. The concept of patient centered care when it comes to treatment should be promoted. Still, to date, not all patients are empowered or included in their own treatment plans. This sometimes results into poor compliance, resulting into poor treatment outcomes and unnecessary costs. The third thing she thinks needs improvement is healthcare financing, which is now becoming more and more of a challenge in terms of costs for many people.  She would like to see a system where people understand the importance of having medical insurance and not wait until they get sick. Also insurance companies have to pay on time for hospitals to continue offering quality services on time. “We need to continue embracing technology and innovation in healthcare,” Brenda gave vivid examples on how CCBRT is embracing this whilst acknowledging, more can still be done on this regard. She strongly believes that it is a responsibility of female leaders, scientists and those with other opportunities to tell their story to positively influence others. Brenda walks the talk.  Busy as she is, most of the time she honors invitations to different events to talk to upcoming young professionals, including girls. She also runs an Instagram page called ‘DeargirlchildBMK’ where she writes to inspire a girl child in a dialogue form on different topical issues. The online platform has 1,800 subscribers (both male and female) and she mentors many. “I get messages from a ‘boy child’ as well, appreciating my posts since they also learn from them. Some have even asked me to change the name of the page to ‘DearchildBMK’ Brenda says with a smile. The writing takes a lot of her time and effort, but she sees it as her responsibility to influence others positively, so that they can know that it can be done, while reminding them it’s not easy and that it’s a process. Brenda emphasizes the fact that she wears many hats, and being a CEO is one of the many hats she wears. “When I am at home, I am a wife and a mother of three girls. I try my level best to leave my CEO hat at the gate. Every time we have to juggle and wear the right hat at the right time,” she explains. Brenda said this is also a challenge because as you climb the career ladder, it becomes more and more difficult to find the right balance. “I would not have done it without Patrick’s (her husband) support and my girls”. As a leader for some years now, she has learnt that it is okay not to know and be humble enough to acknowledge that fact.  “If you don’t make mistakes because you don’t want to fail, that is even a bigger problem.  You would rather make a mistake, reflect and do better,” Brenda says. Advice to the young Success is a process; it is not magic. She warns girls and boys that whenever they see a genuinely organic successful person, they should know that it was a process. They need to understand it and be patient with that process. Through that process, she says, there will be failures and successes. If they remain committed, persevere, consistent and the right positive mindset, then they will achieve. Having the right attitude in life is key. We concluded our interview with a word of wisdom from Brenda, a TEDx speaker, who also serves as the CEO of Roundtable Tanzania and World Vision boards: “No matter how much you are blessed, put your feet on the ground; be humble, because you don’t know what tomorrow holds.” Emmanuel Rubagumya writes about science, technology and innovation.  Email: innovationstz@gmail.com