FIVE new faces appeared for the first in the list of 25 players named by Taifa Stars Coach Etienne Ndayiragije for a FIFA-date friendly match against Burundi at Benjamin Mkapa stadium next week. The match to be staged on October 11th , 2020 in Dar es Salaam, will be the first international match for the both side after a six-month hiatus due to coronavirus scare. Simba’s Said Hamisi Ndemla is among the surprise packages in the list and the player has been impressive since the start of the 2020/21 league season. Others are Ally Msengi, the Serengeti Boys alumni who now plays for Stellenbosch of South Africa, Israel Mwenda of KMC, Bryson David of Azam and Abdallah Sebo who serves Azam FC. Ndayiragije has also called in the squad the team’s captain Mbwana Samatta who has recently joined Fenerbahce of Turkey and striker Simon Msuva from the Moroccan side Diffa El Jadida and Thomas Ulimwengu from TP Mazembe of Congo. Altogether, the 25-man squad has been dominated by players serving three Dar es Salaam giants; Simba, Young Africans and Azam. The Tanzania National team Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije has named a squad of 25 players who will camp at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium for preparation to the upcoming game between Tanzania and Burundi. This was made aware yesterday at Tanzania Football Federation Headquarters Karume, Dar es Salaam. TFF Information Officer, Clifford Ndimbo confirmed the list Aishi Manula (Simba), David Kisu (Azam), Metacha Mnata (Yanga) Shomari Kapombe( Simba) , Israel Mwenda (KMC FC), Mohamed Hussein (Simba), Brayson David (Azam), Bakari Mwamnyeto (Yanga), Abdallah Sebo (Azam), Dickson Job (Mtibwa), Idd Moby (Polisi Tanzania). Others are Jonas Mkude (Simba), Himid Mao (Enppi SC-Egypt), Ditram Nchimbi (Yanga), Feisal Salum (Yanga), Ally Msengi (Stellenbosch-South Africa), Mzamiru Yassin (Simba), Nickson Kibabage (Diffa El Jadidi Morocco), Said Hamisi (Simba), Salum Abubakar (Azam). Mbwana Samatta (Fenerbache-Turkey), Simon Msuva (Diffa El Jadidi-Morocco), Idd Nado (Azam), Thomas Ulimwengu (TP Mazembe-Congo) and John Bocco (Simba). Ndimbo further explained, “this is the full list of Taifa Stars 25 players confirmed and passed by the National team’s coach Etienne Ndayiragije, whereas professional players from abroad will arrive from today.” “The camp will commence from October 5th whereas the domestic league players will report to the camp prior to their games beginning this weekend at Tiffany Hotel in Dar es Salam.” The game comes in according to the FIFA calendar and provides a warm up game for both teams who are gearing up for their coming Total Africa Cup of Nations qualifications games. In their last encounter during FIFA qualifications game completed by 1- 1 draw but Tanzania advanced to the next stage on penalty shot.