THE Court of Appeal has upheld a life sentence against bordered Tandika-based shoeshiner, Mzee Ally Mwinyimkuu, who was convicted of having carnal knowledge of three schoolgirls. Mzee Minyimkuu, was slapped with a lifelong sentence by the High Court after committing the sexual crimes against their order of nature. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Jacobs Mwambegele and Rehema Kerefu dismissed the appeal under which Mwinyimkuu, who is the appellant, had lodged to fault the judgment of the High Court. Initially, the trial court had convicted the appellant of three unnatural offences and sentenced him to 30 years in jail on each count. The sentences were ordered to run co-current, meaning that Mwinyimkuu would have stayed behind bars for only 30 years. Having appealed to the High Court, the conviction was upheld, but the High Court Judge, who heard the first appeal, enhanced the sentence to life imprisonment, considering that the victims were of the age below ten years. The appellant was not satisfied with such findings and went to the Court of Appeal. In their judgment delivered recently, however, the Appeals Court justices held, “the sentences enhanced by the first appellate court were quite appropriate. We order that the appellant should continue serving the sentences enhanced. In the event, this appeal is dismissed.” During hearing of the appeal, the appellant had complained, among others, that the three counts in which he was found guilty, convicted and sentenced, were not proved beyond reasonable doubt in that the testimony of witnesses were not consistent. At the centre of this grievance is the complaint that the witnesses referred to different months during which the offences were allegedly committed.   The justices pointed out, however, that the contradictions shown were minor and could not dismantle the prosecution’s case. “The reason for this stance is not hard to seek; minor contradictions, inconsistencies or discrepancies in evidence for the prosecution do not corrode the strength of its case as do material contradictions, inconsistencies and discrepancies,” they said. Another complaint by the appellant was that voir dire test of the three victims was improperly conducted to ascertain whether the girls of tender age understood the nature of oath and the duty of telling the truth as well as if they possessed sufficient intelligence to justify the reception of evidence. Having closely examined the voir dire tests conducted in respect of the three victims, the justices were satisfied that the same tested victims well on the nature of oath, the duty of speaking the truth and whether they possessed sufficient intelligence to justify the reception of their evidence. The appellant was a shoeshine at Tandika area in Temeke District within the city of Dar es Salaam. The victims were standard four primary school pupils, which was in the vicinity of the appellant's residence and place of work. In a bid to prove its case, the prosecution fielded eight witnesses in its support. One of the witnesses had told the court that one day in the month of October, 2014 her daughter came home late under the pretext that she had gone to the Mosque for prayers. Dissatisfied with her answer and perhaps suspecting something fishy might have happened, the witness took her daughter to Tandika Police Post at Mwembeyanga, where she was interrogated and confessed to have gone to the appellant, who carnally knew her against the order of nature and raped her as well. The victim was taken to hospital for medical examination. Later, a social welfare officer who was procured at the witness's instance interrogated the daughter, who told her that she was taken to the appellant by a friend. An interrogation with that friend revealed that she also was carnally known by the appellant against the order of nature. Further interrogation with her revealed yet another girl in the same class with the duo had also been taken to the appellant where she was also carnally known against the order of nature. Yet another witness testified that one day in November, 2014, her daughter arrived home late complaining that she had some pains in her lower back because the appellant lubricated her with some oil and penetrated his male organ therein. The witness took her daughter to the hospital where she was examined and found to have been sexually abused with some bruises in the anus. The victims all recounted how, on diverse dates, went to the appellant's place of work at the area known as Transformer where they were given 2,000/- to buy chips. Later they were directed to go to the appellant's residence where they were ravished. The victims showed their parents where the appellant worked as well as his residence where he used to ravish them, with the information helping his arrest. On his part, the appellant dissociated himself with the charges levelled against him. He told the trial court that he did not know the victims. He stated that he was in bad blood with a certain woman who previously accused him of raping her daughter and that such woman went to the appellant’s sister to borrow money but she did not succeed and thus promised vengeance against him.