DIGITAL technology has made life easy for women and girls seeking medical consultation from gynecologists, following the introduction of a mobile application ‘Hedhi App’. The ‘Hedhi App’, which is in Swahili language, has been developed in order to enable specialist doctors from different hospitals to provide services through an online platform. Designed by Anuflo Industries Limited, it is intended to address challenges facing women and girls who want to consult gynecologists but are unable to. Chief Executive Officer of Anuflo Industries Ltd, Ms Flora Njelekela said the App will help women receive advice on the right time to get pregnant by following their menstruation cycle. “We have realized that many women are not aware of how to follow their menstruation cycle, or have problems getting menstruation, so now they can get consultation from where they are,” Ms Njelekela said. So far, five gynecologists have joined the App for offering the services, with whom patients can interact on the platform. The App, which is available on Android mobile phones, will help women, especially school girls who feel shy to express their problems to doctors face-to-face, she argued. “Several school girls apparently feel shy or fear to expose their reproductive health problems, they keep it a secret, and in the end the problems become more complicated,” she said. Apart from medical consultation, through the App women can get education on reproduction health because the App will have different topics on reproductive health. She further said patients will be paying affordable consultation fee which is lower compared to when seeking the same services in hospitals. Shedding light on how the application works, she said a user can download it and register, and thereafter the user can view doctors and select one or two to interact with. Dr Berno Mwambe, one of the gynecologists who have joined the platform, explained that the application is useful because it will be providing opportunities to women to directly communicate with doctors. “The application is good because for women who were facing difficulties in seeing gynecologists can now have easy access,” Dr Mwambe stated. On her part, Ms Saumu Rajabu, Selcom Paytech Ltd Channel Executive Director said their company has partnered with Anuflo Industries Ltd to enable payments for consultation fees through mobile transactions and banks.