Tanzania has been hailed for its great contribution to maintaining global peace and security. Junub Child’s Rights Initiative Chief Executive Officer Ayuel David Abraham Machar said Tanzania’s role in global peace, stability and security was worth emulation by other East African Community (EAC) nations. Mr Machar, who was responding to questions from ‘Daily News’ on the sidelines of the just ended 23rd Tanzania International Model United Nations (TIMUN) 2020 at the weekend commended the East African nation for maintaining peace and security even as Tanzanians prepared for the general election later this month. “A country like South Sudan, which has been embroiled in civil war since independence has a lot to learn from Tanzania, especially on maintaining peace and security,” he said. According to Mr Machar, Tanzania has been earning global accolades, thanks to its role in maintaining peace, stability and security. He further challenged the youth in his country to play their part in restoring peace, especially in dismantling groups that recruited child soldiers. “The onus is on the youth because of the plight of child soldiers,” noted Mr Machar. Although exact figures are hard to determine because of insecurity, Unicef estimates that 9,000 children in South Sudan have been recruited in armed forces and groups by both sides in the conflict. Addressing the 11th National Assembly before dissolving it in June, President John Magufuli revealed that Tanzania had deployed 2,303 peacekeepers in various UN peacekeeping missions across the world. President Magufuli said the country had dispatched peacekeepers to various countries, including the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the Central African Republic (CAR), Lebanon and South Sudan. The soldiers’ presence in the war-torn countries is a clear testimony of how committed the country is in promoting international peace and security, according to Dr Magufuli. This year Tanzania shone in the Global Peace Index 2020 (GPI). Global findings released by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) ranking the country first in East Africa and seventh on the continent for demonstrating peace and security. Tanzania climbed six places after having posted an overall score of 1.85 points to claim the 52nd slot globally. The GPI’s 14th edition which ranks 163 independent states and territories according to their level of peacefulness, Africa posted a regional average score of 2.264 points. The GPI covered 99.7 per cent of the world’s population, using 23 qualitative and quantitative indicators from highly respected sources, and measures the state of peace across three domains: the level of societal safety and security, the extent of ongoing domestic and international conflict and the degree of militarisation.