AS a response to President John Magufuli’s call to make Tanzania an industrialised nation, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) has set aside 5bn/- for the facilitation of an industrial scheme countrywide. This was said recently by Kilimanjaro Regional NSSF Branch Manager Large Materu, when presenting a paper at an entrepreneurship seminar for small and medium entrepreneurs held in Mwanga District, Kilimanjaro Region. “The move responds to President Magufuli’s advice on social security fund institutions to change their direction of investments by investing in areas which are more productive compared to investing only in real estate,” he said. Mr Materu said by investing in the industrial sector, in collaboration with other stakeholders would enable NSSF to benefit pensioners. “This type of investment will benefit pensioners due to an increase in new job opportunities, which will also benefit pensioners’ children and other relatives who will also be new NSSF clients through their NSSF contributions,” he added. He also noted: “Those who will join the industrial scheme will also be subject to three types of benefits instead of NSSF's seven benefits, which include pension and health insurance covers, which will be provided in collaboration with the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) and loans.” He said also those who met conditions would receive their loans through Azania Bank after meeting all criteria approved by Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) and the Vocational Education Training Authority (VETA).  In his presentation at the seminar organised by the Northern Zone Office of the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), National Economic Empowerment Coordinator (NEEC) Richard Pweleza in Kilimanjaro Region said the industrial scheme would improve the economy by empowering small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. “President John Magufuli promised to increase new employment opportunities in many areas, including the manufacturing sector. May I take this opportunity to urge you small entrepreneurs to join groups with your innovations to benefit from this scheme and increase your economic wellbeing,” he said. 