A LOCAL company operating businesses in hotel industry under the tourism sector has technically lost its 4.2bn/- suit against five Kenyan registered companies. The suit involves breach of contract relating to installation of mobile tented camps in various national parks in Tanzania. Judge Deo Nangela ruled against Wellworth Hotels and Lodges Limited, the plaintiff, after upholding one ground of objection lodged by East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd, Stirling Arving Horsely, Robert James Flowers, Gary Mcintyre and Eco-Steel Africa Ltd, in the suit that was lodged by unqualified advocate. "The issue regarding whether Mr (Yasin) Maka was a qualified advocate when he prepared and filed the Plaint in this Court is answered in the negative form. That, the Plaint filed in this Court is hereby struck out for having been filed by unqualified person," the judge declared in his ruling given recently. He noted, among others, that it was clear, in his view, that, Mr Maka, the advocate who drafted and filed the Plaint in this Court on January 20, 2020, had not renewed his practicing certificate. The counsel for the plaintiff had submitted that such matter was not a point of law as needed evidence to be proved. The judge, however, had this to say on such point, "I do not think that this is an issue that needs one to call for evidence. No one needs to prove (the) obvious." Judge Nangela referred to the website of the Judiciary of Tanzania which indicates records of all practicing advocates in the country. According to him, Mr Maka renewed his practicing certificate on February 3, 2020, which means that from January 1, 2020 to February 2, 2020 he was an unqualified person pursuant to the provisions of the Advocate Act. He pointed out that as correctly argued by the counsel for the defendant companies, section 38 (I) and (2) of the Act gives a grace period of renewal of one's certificate of practice up to February 1, of each year, with retrospective renewal validity effectively from January, 1 of the year involved. "Unfortunately Mr  Maka cannot benefit from it because his certificate was renewed on February 3," the judge said. He stressed that it is clear, under section 41(1) of the Advocate Act, the law provides for the restriction of unqualified person not to act as advocates in any court of law. Wellworth Hotels and Lodges Limited, a company registered in accordance with the laws of the United Republic of Tanzania, operates its businesses in the hotel industry under the tourism sector. The East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd is a company duly registered under the Laws of the Republic of Kenya, while Stirling Arving Horsely, Robert James Flowers, Gary Mcintyre and Eco –Steel Africa Ltd are its shareholders. Wellworth Hotels and Lodges Limited was suing the said five defendant companies, jointly and severally, for breach of contract dated January 26, 2016, which was entered between the Plaintiff Company and the East Africa Canvans Co. Ltd. Under the said contract, the defendants were to design, manufacture, supply, and install five mobile tented camps in various national parks in Tanzania. The tents were to be delivered by June 30, 2016, but the same were never delivered. It was at that point in time when the plaintiff filed the suit in question. In the suit, the plaintiff company was seeking for, among others, a declaratory order that the defendants have breached the contract entered between them and demanded for a full reimbursement of 443,508.60 US dollars, as well as 1,357,045.18 US dollars as special damages for losses incurred.