PROCEDURAL flaws have served a resident of Bagamoyo District in Coast Region, Sijali Shabani, from being hanged to death for allegedly killing his wife, Amina Ally, for unspecified reasons. Court of Appeal Justices Shaban Lila, Winfrida Korosso and Barke Sahel ordered Shabani, who was the appellant, be released from prison forthwith after allowing his appeal he had lodged to fault the decision of the High Court. “In sum, the trial was tainted with procedural flaws. We allow the appeal and hereby order that the appellant be set at liberty forthwith unless incarcerated in prison on account of another lawful cause,” they declared. The justices noted some deficiencies in the summing up evidence by the trial to court assessors, a wanting process which vitiated the trial. They also pointed out that the admission of exhibits and production of witnesses was also flawed. “We accordingly invoke the powers of revision bestowed upon the Court under section 4 (2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act and quash all the proceedings and judgment of the trial court and set aside the sentence meted to the appellant,” the justices ruled. Expounding further, the justices pointed out that in terms of section 265 of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), it is imperative that all criminal trials before the High Court should be with the aid of assessors and that the trial judge is required to sum up the evidence to them before giving their opinion. The aim of summing up to assessors, they said, was to enable the assessors assist the court in the just determination of the case by giving a focused opinion. According to the justices, the law does not restrict which matters should be addressed to the assessors in the summing up. “It is for that reason that the Court has insisted that the assessors should be addressed and directed on both matters of fact and the vital points of law involved in the determination of the case,” they said. To have an effective and focused opinion, the justices insisted that the Court has declined to treat the need to sum up to assessors as discretion as the law seems to provide by using the word “may” and has insisted that such a practice is mandatory. In the instant case, they entirely agreed with the concurrent views of counsel of both sides, that is, the prosecution and defence, that the trial judge strayed into error when he barred the assessors from giving opinion on matters of law involved in the determination of case. “It is evident that while in the judgment the appellants’ conviction was founded on extrajudicial statement, malice aforethought, identification and corroborative evidence, such vital points of law were not explained and elaborated to the assessors in the summing up notice by the trial Judge,” they noted. The information laid by the prosecution alleged that on March 11, 2012 at about 18.30hrs at Makole Village within Bagamoyo District in Coast Region, the appellant murdered his wife. According to Shabani Ismail, the appellant was his brother in-law having married the late Amina, who was born of his paternal uncle. That their marriage was blessed with two issues, a male and a female.