If there is a silent development in the sector, is the rebuttal and a call to a review of proposed and finally enacted crops purchasing model in large part of our country. As it was declared by the Ministry of Agriculture, all farmers had to sell their chickpeas, pigeon peas and sesame through Unions spread in some of the regions in the country. In what couldn’t have been expected by many, few weeks ago, Manyara regional government imposed a ban on tying a farmer to sell through the collective purchases of pulses and sesame indefinitely. This decision which has been replicated by some other regions, was arrived at after a consultative meeting between farmers’ representatives, traders, inter alia, who after deep discussion resolved to suspend this procurement model “until further notice”. In essence farmers are now at liberty to sell either through the Unions or directly to traders. From the look of things, farmers and traders took it as a victory whereas Union managers perceived it as a loss; and all of them had a reason or two to back their standing – whether they are valid or not that might be a discussion for another day. As the matter of fact, farmers have been the leading culprits of this setting for a bit long time. Apart from paying a total of 75 shillings per kilo to Agricultural Markets Cooperative Society (AMCOS) and the Union, they have been spending months waiting to be paid their money ‘little’. In other words, societies have been generating enough income for their institutions at the expense of farmers. “How do you expect a farmer with one bag intending to sell so he can meet his immediate needs to send the commodities to the Union and wait for a month or so?”, one stakeholder in Babati district, Manyara region was lamenting to me on the system last week. Some went even far by suspecting that the motive behind this was meant to benefit the few. “You now, this was crafted by some elites for their ulterior motives and not for farmers benefits”. While one could ignore on the motive commentary, their embarrassment could not be taken for granted. More than once, even before introduction of this system, I have been raising alarm by pointing out areas that required thorough fixing before rolling out of the practice. This was not a call for resistance as some other might have tried to interpret, but a reminder of our onus to tie the ropes properly befor sending our horse to the race. Some of the areas that I tried to highlight and those which was appeared to form major basis for decision to jettison the practice was the need to strengthen our cooperatives first. And my stand has always been towards creating two market systems, one through Coops and the other through spot markets, and let these two compete. This, I argued, would help farmers and traders at the same time without throwing anyone under the bus. While the current decision hasn’t perfectly embraced that advisory, it works on the same philosophy of giving a farmer a freedom to choose where to sell his/her hard earned produce. To be sure, in the long run, cooperatives are to be preserved, protected and edified. In the competitive business which presumes everyone is strong enough to compete, a learned society must go a step further by protecting those who are weak. Funny enough, collective action is not meant for the weak alone, even the mighty ones at times comes together to either maintain their dominance or prevent some others from getting near them. To farmers union should not be an option. The leading producers of oil in the world have their union in OPEC (Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries), economically developed countries have their synergy in OECD (organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), and many more. So if the strong forms alliances, the weak must do more. But it shouldn’t be any how, and that is where we have been getting so wrong in this matter to be precise. It is my wish that if the system is going to be installed then it will do so in a more improved manner than not and if one will ask me to provide a generic advisory at this stage my response to the authorities concerned would be, “please don’t impose the practice on people, get them involved from the early stage in inclusive and proactive way and let it grow organically”. Whichever way, we have to get back to the drawing board and see how exactly we can make the status quo more efficient. Unless we get there we might find ourselves in a state of ineffectiveness.