AIR Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) has resumed Lusaka (Zambia) via Harare in Zimbabwe flights on the right foot by ferrying over two third of the seating capacity. The ATCL Communications department head, Joseph Kagirwa said on Tuesday that the company ferried 40 passengers out of 76 seating capacity. The flight’s resumption comes following the lift of restrictions that were issued after the eruption of the Covid-19 pandemic, where most countries closed their airspaces in a bid to prevent further spread. He said Air Tanzania will conduct two flights per week to Lusaka Zambia via Zimbabwe on Tuesday and Friday, connecting passengers from other places to Dar es Salaam. Earlier this week, the ATCL Managing Director, Eng Ladislaus Matindi said the resumption of flights, apart from facilitating movement of people and their goods, will also stimulate investment and business activities in the region. “ATCL will continue extending the wings of Kilimanjaro over Africa and beyond. This will enable investment, trade and tourism opportunities presented by the resumption of these flights and expansion of the network, which will certainly add value to the mentioned countries,” he said. The ATCL boss assured that the company has taken all precautions regarding Covid-19 and takes care of the health of both passengers and crew during the operations to every destination. “Air Tanzania will soon resume flights to Mumbai, India as well as connecting passengers to Bangkok Thailand and Guangzhou (China) via Dar es Salaam,” he explained. Currently, Air Tanzania is providing the Tanzanian market with a minimum of daily flights to each 11 destinations from Dar es Salaam and twice a week to Hahaya, Comoro. All destinations are served with Bombardier Q400, AirbusA220-300 and Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner. In January, ATCL announced its decision to postpone its maiden flights from Tanzania’s commercial capital Dar es Salaam to Guangzhou, due to the spread of coronavirus. Later on in March, the company went on to suspend flights to Lusaka and Harare, on the same reason, as the latter closed their airspaces. 