RESIDENTS of Arusha town on Wednesday braved the morning chill and drizzle to cast their ballots in this year’s General Election. As it was expected, the city witnessed high voter’s turnout, with many eager to exercise their constitutional right in a peaceful manner. Polling stations were open as early as 7am, with people from different walks of life electing ward leaders, MPs of their preferences and the president. At least 374,000 residents within the city were expected to cast their ballots, according to Dr John Pima, the city council director. “We’ve not had any hitches so far, everything is calm and security at all polling stations is at top notch,” said Mr Pima when fielding questions from the ‘Daily News’. The City Director further urged potential voters to return home after casting their ballots, instead of idling around the voting centres. A survey conducted by this paper established that law enforcers did not experience any difficulty manning the poling centres. This writer witnessed long queues of prospective voters at Kurugenzi, Kaloleni and Levolosi polling centres, waiting for their turn to cast their ballots. Such was a similar scenario at Mbauda and Ngarenaro wards. “I’m elated to have voted today, this year’s election means a lot to me,” quipped Mr Gulamabbas Bandali, a resident of Kaloleni as he displayed his inked finger to confirm that he had voted. A clerk at Kaloleni polling station, Irene Temba said those who came to vote didn’t experience any difficulties in spotting their names on the voters list, and were immediately ushered into the centres to exercise their constitutional rights. In Arumeru District, more than 170,000 eligible voters were expected to vote at 521 polling stations. Meru District Executive Director (DED) Emmanuel Mkongo said he was satisfied with the exercise as no major incident had been reported in the area which is synonymous with tribal clashes. Over 29 million Tanzanians were registered to vote in the polls which involve 15 presidential candidates.