THE Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism is preparing to commemorate 100 years of the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere in 2022 by identifying new strategies, which will further highlight his work, life and philosophies. To be observed annually, unlike the annual celebrations marked on 14th October, the new plan is preparing to honour his 100 years in a unique way, adding that the government is fully behind it. Making the revelation here yesterday, Natural Resources and Tourism Permanent Secretary, Dr Aloyce Nzuki noted that the commemorations will involve showcasing many things like houses he lived in different parts of the country, his speeches, and people he worked with at different levels. While meeting a special committee on that, Dr Nzuki  said plans are underway to save all Nyerere’s speeches in digital format. Weighing the proposals, the committee suggested coming up with a day to commemorate Nyerere Day in a unique and acceptable way, different from the current procedure, where the day coincides with the climax of the ‘Uhuru Torch Race’. He said that there are some people outside the country, who argue that Tanzania had not done enough in celebrating the life of the country’s founding father of the nation, hence, call for the document to showcase all his activities. According to the PS, new details about the life of Mwalimu Nyerere will help in expanding tourism, saying that there are tourists, who take him as their role model and would want to visit, where he lived, see his working tools and other activities. “The committee is charged with the responsibility of identifying new ways on how to celebrate Mwalimu Julius Nyerere in a manner that will help keep his history alive for the current and future generations,” he noted. Dr Nzuki further said Nyerere was a big name locally, regionally and internationally and there are people, who still follow his speeches, and directives he issued. Chairperson of the Special Committee, Imani Kajura said the committee brings onboard officials from different governments and institutions, who are working to ensure that they come up with new ways on how to celebrate the day. He added: “Without such new measures, the coming generations will not be able to know more about Mwalimu Nyerere, yet he was a global figure.” Madaraka Nyerere, son of the former president, who is also a member of the committee, said the family was ready to collaborate with the government in marking 100 years of his father as well as new initiatives to celebrate his life. “The government has always celebrated the late Mwalimu Nyerere, and as a family we are ready to collaborate with the leaders in effort to improve the celebrations, since his life and activities speak a lot about Tanzania” he said. The Acting Director, Department of Antiquities from the ministry, Dr Fabian Kigadye noted that the initiative will help his department to have and save new things as contributions from the public about Mwl Nyerere. He observed that there are some historical events related to Mwl Nyerere, but have not been fully documented, including a house he lived in at Magomeni in Dar es Salaam and the museum at Butiama in Mara region.