CONTRACTORS Registration Board (CRB) plans to continue with annual meetings with local contractors in four zones in the country to build capacity for them so that they can increase efficiency in the implementation of big projects. This was revealed by the board Registrar, Rhoben Nkori while closing a one-day training session for local contractors on the importance of joint ventures among them so that they can be able to compete with foreign companies. “CRB sees the importance of going to our zones for annual meetings, and we plan to do annual meetings in Mwanza, Mbeya, Arusha and Dar es Salaam, and will start immediately in March and end in May 2021, and the last meeting which will be the climax will be held in Dar es Salaam,” said Nkori. He said most contractors in Tanzania are small so they need regular capacity building trainings to compete with their counterparts from outside the country who always implement most of the big projects in the country. “Our local contractors have different capabilities, some of them are good financially, some are good when it comes to machines, and others have good expertise, so if they join together they can be very strong and compete in tenders with any one,” he said. The Managing Director of Ostrich Company, Christopher Nyagaswa congratulated the CRDB move to equip local contractors through different trainings, which he said opens their eyes on different issues related to construction industry, like the importance of joint ventures. He said the tailor made trainings conducted by CRB is of great importance for local contractors because they need more knowledge on how they can grow their companies and eventually compete with big foreign companies. “A long serving contractor, Mayanga Company Director has given us his experience on the importance of joint ventures and the challenges on how to do it, so at least we are aware of what to do if someone needs to go for it, after this training we will change,” he said. Mr Nyagaswa requested CRB management to continue with such trainings in different regions and zones so that they can benefit many local contractors and eventually increase the number of local contractors implementing big projects. He said many local contractors face challenges of capital, and when they go to seek loans from financial institutions they cannot afford conditions to repay back their loans. “I would like to take this opportunity to ask our good government to put in place enabling environment for local contractors to help them acquire loans so that they can have muscles to compete in big tenders with their counterparts from outside the country,” he said. Another participant of the training, Colin Mwaluka said he was not aware of the pros and cons of joint ventures, but after the presentation from renowned and famous contractors, he is now aware of how to go about it if he needs to join with his friends.