When will October 29, 2020 arrive? By then, October 28, the voting day, will have come and gone. We will have voted for our favourite candidates and will be free from all this electioneering gimmicks, where every contestant is an archangel, with a solution to all our problems. We should be able, thereafter, to continue with our daily chores, as one people. The National Electoral Commission (NEC) however, is worried. Will we turn up to vote in the expected numbers? A news item in the Custodian of October 3 (p. 6), entitled: “Most Tanzanians Lack Civic Education” attributed to NEC and wired in from Iringa, depicts this fear: “The majority of Tanzanians still lack education on the importance of voting as a result contributing to low ‘electoral’ turn out…” I am not happy with the use of the adjective “electoral”; which I would replace with the noun: “electorate”, and have the sentence recast into: “The majority of Tanzanians still lack education on the importance of voting. This contributes to the low turn-out of the electorate”. NEC has the evidence: “Lack of education has led to many people not showing up on election day; there are many people who did not vote in the 2015 ‘general elections’ despite the Commission’s effort to provide voter education throughout the country”. “General elections” is used three times in the article. For a zillionth time, NEC please note: It is a “General Election” not “General Elections”. For a zillionth and one times, this year’s will be a General Election. According to the reporter, “NEC thanked stakeholders for their cooperation especially during the exercise to update the permanent ‘voter’s register’, an exercise which was ‘successfully’, whereas the Commission exceeded the registration target”. “This”, according to the reporter, “was due to ‘stakeholder’s involvement in encouraging people to show up in large numbers to register or ‘improve’ their information in the register”. Slightly over halfway through the article, the reporter talks of a senior NEC official as having: “added that with the ‘improvement’ of the permanent ‘voter’ register, the Commission has managed to register 29,188,347 voters”. (You will be glad to know that these 29+ million voters include yours faithfully). The reporter talks of a “voter’s” register, or a “voter” register. In both cases, he needs to be alerted that he is not writing about one voter. It is many voters, 29m+ of them. So, it should be a “permanent voters’ register” (not voter’s, or voter register). Also with regard to stakeholders, we are talking about their involvement, the many of them. So it should be “stakeholders’ involvement”, and not “stakeholder’s involvement”. I also feel tempted to frown upon this idea of “people improving their information in the register”. I would go for “updating their information in the register”. The reporter talks about NEC warning political parties: “NEC emphasises ‘on’ the importance of political parties and candidates to adhere to electoral values in their campaigns”. “Emphasising on?” No I would say “emphasise” (without ‘on’); or “lay emphasis on”. “NEC emphasises the importance of political parties and candidates, to adhere to electoral rules”. NEC should not lose sleep. Come October 28, we are all turning up in large numbers to vote, inshallah! Let us end by making a quick hop to Nairobi, Kenya. They are soon undertaking three days of prayers to seek redemption from Covid-19 (C&P from TZ). In the Saturday Nation (October 3), an expert in finance warns us that good ideas can make for bad business: “The steps you take after generating a brilliant idea determine whether you’ll smile at the bank or fade away”. I smiled of course, at thinking that the writer had “laugh all the way to the bank”, and not “smile at the bank”, in mind. Much as the two verbs are cousins, why smile if you can laugh? However, “Laugh all the way to the bank” is an idiom, so you are not allowed to dilute “laugh” to “smile” or, modify it in any other way. The idiom means: “making a lot of money easily”; not physically going to the bank. Yes, you just make money, lots of it, and easily, at that. Who wouldn’t like to have such luck? Who wouldn’t smile at that?