ON 28th, October 2020, Tanzanians will be deciding the destiny of their nation through ballot box, in the sixth general elections since the East African nation opted multiparty democracy in the early 1990s. However, this elections is not the same as the other last five elections since 1995. This time around Africa and the world are watching with special interest because the concept which was well articulated by Cheikh Anta Diop in his series of essays in the 1940s through 1960s, is coming true in the land of Mwalimu Nyerere, once the Mecca for the continents liberation movements. The essays collected in the book “Towards the African Renaissance: Essays in culture and development, 1946 – 1960,” enlightens on the necessity of African people and nations to overcome the current challenges confronting the continent to achieve cultural, scientific, and economic renewal by themselves. Yes, African solutions for African problems. President John Pombe Magufuli, has proved beyond reasonable doubt that just as the first generation of African leaders managed to liberate the continent from colonialism, the third generation of leadership can as well see the African continent breaking the economic bondage for the well-being of her people. Magufuli has spearheaded and make it through corona virus pandemic, managed to build confidence of the people to battle the plague and emerged in flying colours that even his stern critics are appreciating the way Tanzania forged its way through the pandemic. Attending the President’s Forum in Claremonton, California on 16th, May 1999, only five months before he embarked on the better world, Mwalimu Nyerere said economic liberation was the challenge for the new generation of the African leaders and that they have to succeed in that mission. “It’s time for cleaning up the remaining elements of irresponsible and non- accountable leaders. It’s time for good governance and for new leadership to be able to say No! to those meddling in the internal affairs of Africa.” Magufuli is walking the talk and the expectation of the first generation of the African leaders. After political independence, economic and mental emancipation are remaining key challenges for Africa today, and JPM is taking them head on. That is why October  28th, is not only and election day for Tanzania, more important, it’s the day to decide the position of Africa in the world and the choice between economic liberation and captivity. Tanzanians, in the same way you used to be the reliable rear base for the liberation struggles, you are once again holding the key for African emancipation from economic captivity, vote wisely, vote Magufuli for the bright future of Africa.