TANZANIA Telecommunications Corporation (TTCL) has pledged to continue improving its products and offer quality communications services to boost the country’s economic growth. This was said in Dar es Salaam when the state-owned company launched Customer Service Week and promised to expand its market share in the telecommunications industry. The week is celebrated every October to reiterate the importance of customer service and the people who serve and support clients daily for mutual understanding. This was said yesterday by TTCL Director General, Waziri Kindamba in a statement that was read on his behalf by the company’s commercial director Vedastus Mwita. “With Customer Service Week, the TTCL management would get closer to customers by serving them directly, a move that will enable us to maintain the cordial relationship that the company has to the entire members of public,” he said, noting that the week would be marked under a theme: ‘Dream Team’. In this case, he said, the company directors and managers would spend a week on visiting various customer service points to meet clients directly. “To bring services closer to our clients, TTCL has been coming out with different innovations aimed at improving our services and products as a result of meeting market demand,” he noted. Expounding further he said TTCL was committed to providing better communications services at lower costs using advanced technology. According to a recent report from Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), TTCL is among the fast growing telecommunications companies in the country. Since February 2018 when the new TTCL was launched, the company has increased the number of clients. T-Pesa service is used by 916,351 customers, scooping 3 per cent of mobile money subscriptions market share as of June 2020. This transformation was made after the establishment of the Tanzania Telecommunications Corporation Act of 2019 that saw the replacement of TTCL initially jointly owned by the government of Tanzania and foreign investors.