RULING party CCM has vowed to transform Mbeya Region into a great centre of businesses for Southern highland regions and Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries. The party's presidential candidate, Dr John Magufuli, pledged yesterday that if re-elected in the coming election, his government will turn the Southern city into a trading hub by attracting investors and businesspersons from different areas. Addressing a campaign rally at old Mbeya Airport, Dr Magufuli said his government will turn Mbeya into a gateway for tourism activities for the Southern highland regions and neighbouring countries. “Mbeya is going to be an exemplary city in Tanzania and Africa, we are going to transform this city to become a centre of big businesses for the Southern countries,” said Dr Magufuli. He said his party's 2020-2025 manifesto highlights major plans for changing the region by implementing various projects that will attract businesses and more investment in the area. The incumbent Head of State said 20bn/- has already been allocated for expansion of Songwe Airport to accommodate big aircrafts. He said the money will be used for expanding the airport runway, passengers lounge, installing runway lighting system, modern radar and other infrastructures. “Flights from Amsterdam and other big centres will be landing and taking-off directly from this city...businesspersons from different countries will be landing directly in Mbeya for businesses,”  said Dr Magufuli. Moreover, the presidential candidate said his government is also focusing on improving health services in the Southern highland zone, pledging that the coming ruling party’s government will transform Mbeya city into a health tourism hub. “We are going to provide quality services to our people and attract others from neighbouring countries,” he said. The incumbent President said the idea aims at ensuring access of specialised health services in the region including those related to cancer and kidney treatment. According to Dr Magufuli, people from Southern highland regions and those from neighbouring countries will no longer be required to travel a long distance to Dar es Salaam to seek specialised treatment. The CCM Chairman unveiled plans to improve health services at Mbeya Zonal Hospital in which modern medical equipment will be installed. “We are going to bring specialists here along with installing modern medical equipment in our hospitals,” he noted. He said in the next five years, his government is looking forward to finalise the construction of antenatal and postnatal care building at Meta Maternity Hospital located in the region.  He said the building will have the capacity to accommodate 200 women at once and that it is being built at the cost of 9.2bn/- Dr Magufuli added that the improvement of roads, construction of ports and vessels in Lake Nyasa as well as improvement of Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) which goes along with the repairing of seven locomotives and 21 wagons are all basically aiming at promoting both social and economic activities in the area. Dr Magufuli boasted of the achievements recorded during the past five year in Mbeya Region, saying a total of 261 villages out of 385 have been supplied with reliable electricity. He said during the period the government has also injected about 252.36bn/- for roads construction in the region. The government also took efforts to improve the education sector, whereas a total of 1073 classrooms have been built in the region, while it has also renovated four secondary schools namely; Loleza, Mbeya Secondary, Rungwe and Iyunga Technical School. Also the government constructed 229 teachers' houses, 31 laboratories, 28 dormitories and 8 libraries in the past five years in the region. Meanwhile, Dr Magufuli said, his government managed to build 14 health centres, 72 dispensaries and constructed and renovated six hospitals at a total of 13.6bn/-. The presidential candidate also promised to divide Mbeya City into two districts, saying the city is growing fast and that there is need for forming another district to ease administration of development projects. He asked voters to vote for him, Dr Tulia Ackson for Mbeya Urban constituency and all other candidates on CCM tickets. Dr Magufuli added: “There are many tourists' attractions in this region; we have Kitulo National Park, beautiful beaches on the shores of Lake Nyasa and the Great Rift Valley viewing point.” Other attractions in the region include Ruaha National Park, Lake Nyasa, Mbozi meteorite, Mwalalo Water Falls, Kisiba/Masoko Crater Lake and many others.  The city also has various rock and cave painting sites. The city also has a significant number of transit passengers heading towards Lusaka/Malawi from Dar es Salaam Port that often make a stop in the city for overnight lodging or food.