TANZANIA has attained the middle-income economy status, thanks to reforms and great strides made under the fifth phase government. This means that Tanzania has continued fighting against the three traditional enemies of development - ignorance, diseases and poverty. In other words, the government has to a great extent improved the provision of social services which have also improved people’s standards of living and quality of life. According to the UN, Tanzania’s current life expectancy stands at 65.46 years, a 0.48 per cent increase from 2019. In 2015, life expectance was 63.11 years and 10 years ago it was 58.58 years. So, there are notable achievements we as a nation have made. But this shouldn’t make us satisfied lest we retrogress. Therefore, we must keep on working hard for we have the potential to do more and even better. We say this because as we look around we see that there are big development projects going on and we are sure that after five or 10 years we will have made another leap in development. That is why today we have good reasons to feel a glow of pride in the roaring success we have made in our country, particularly in the fight against ignorance, diseases and poverty. Yesterday Tanzania joined other countries across the world to mark International Day for the Eradication of Poverty. This year’s theme is: ‘Acting together to achieve social and environmental justice for all’. This calls for the growing recognition of the multi-dimensionality of poverty in the sense that social justice cannot be fully realised without taking steps to fight against environmental injustice for present and future generations. We know how our country has heavily invested in areas that will eradicate poverty and in doing so the government has assured Tanzanians time and time again of environmental protection and preservation. In its resolution 72/233, the General Assembly proclaimed the Third United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty (2018–2027). Its theme is “Accelerating global actions for a world without poverty” in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. So, what is done in Tanzania is in line with this global project of eradicating poverty and we think that it is possible to have Tanzania without poverty or at least without extreme poverty. So, let us remain focused to ensure all our development plans are implemented in line with poverty eradication and improving people’s standards of living and quality of life.