WITH just over two weeks remaining before Tanzanians go to the polling stations to elect their leaders, a new opinion poll shows that CCM Presidential candidate will win the race by over 80 per cent. According to the opinion poll conducted by Rhemasoft between June and September this year whose results were made public on Friday, Dr Magufuli will garner an 82 per cent victory in Tanzania Mainland and 75 per cent in Zanzibar. According to the pollster, Chadema Presidential candidate, Mr Tundu Lissu will garner 16 per cent in Mainland Tanzania and 22 per cent in Zanzibar. The details further show ACT-Wazalendo presidential candidate Bernard Membe will garner 1 per cent and candidates from other political parties will get only 1 per cent of all votes. On the part of Zanzibar’s union presidential candidate, 75 per cent of the participants supported Dr Magufuli, 22 per cent Chadema’s Tundu Lissu, 2 per cent ACT - Wazalendo aspirant Bernard Membe, and 1 per cent for candidates from other political parties. On Zanzibar presidential race, CCM’s Dr Hussein Mwinyi will win by 69 per cent, ACT -Wazalendo Seif Sharif Hamad will garner 29 per cent, while candidates from other political parties will all garner 2 per cent. The poll results further showed that areas where Dr Magufuli was highly favoured in Mainland included Dodoma, Dar es Salaam, Western regions, Simiyu and Katavi, while in Zanzibar are Urban West Region, Mkoani and others. Chadema’s Lissu was highly supported in Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro in Mainland and North and South Pemba in Zanzibar. The poll results further showed that areas where Zanzibar presidential candidate Dr Mwinyi got highly selected are Urban West, Mkoani and other areas while, Maalim Seif was highly supported in North Pemba. The survey drew 27,884 participants from Mainland and Zanzibar, of whom 16,026 were women while 11,858 men. The poll was conducted with the aim of collecting opinion from Tanzanians on the forthcoming general election. Tanzania will hold its General Election on October 28th, this year, to elect presidents, Members of Parliament, House of Representatives and councilors.