THE Karimjee Jivanjee Foundation (JKF) has partnered with Great Hope Foundation (GHF) to implement this year’s Uwezo Award Project valued at 10,000 USD aimed at practically building the capacity of secondary school students to be entrepreneurs at the grassroots. For the past four years running in Dar es Salaam and the Coast Regions, the pilot project has reached 270 Secondary Schools and inspired over 200,000 students directly and indirectly in building their capacity to practically develop as entrepreneurs, seen as beneficial to them in life after school. The annual Uwezo Award Project is a competitional project for students aimed at empowering them to design and implement community change projects and evaluated by the GHF that to date, has seen 55 community change schemes being awarded and more than 1,200 students participating. Briefing media on the project, GHF’s Country Director, Noelle Mahuvi, said: “I feel privileged to have had a chance to design and implement the Uwezo Award at Great Hope Foundation. “Apart from the skills’ accumulation and the value these young people are adding to their society through their community change projects, my coordination has been to transform their minds to positively empower themselves in life.” On his part, KJF Chairman,Yusuf Karimjee, said: “I am impressed by Noelle’s passion and the Great Hope Foundation’s commitment that is  enabling young people to become change makers in their local communities. With their support, young people are taking small but meaningful action.” He said Karimjee Foundation's vision is to groom the next generation of leaders, because it believes they are the change makers and innovators, who have the potential to change Tanzania and the world. He further said that by supporting GHF in building entrepreneurial skills among the students and encouraging them to use the skills acquired, KJF is confident that in the long run, this will assist them in securing employment or self-employment in a market full of opportunities. This year, the Great Hope’s foundation is running yet another scheme locally known as UWEZO CHAMPION that is aimed at motivating, inspiring, coaching, and mentoring students, who have acquired skills in business entrepreneurship after participating in the UWEZO award programme. The aim is also to bring them together as players and design ways of addressing challenges, besides inspiring them to continuously grow and develop their businesses and become global entrepreneurs. JKF is a philanthropic arm of the Karimjee Group that is committed in creating a bright future for young Tanzanians through education and empowerment. For GHF, it was registered in 2010 and started working with government schools and institutions in 2016 with the intention of creating programme, which empower young Tanzanians to acquire skills and enable them thrive in the country’s challenging labour market. The foundation celebrates its 10-year anniversary this year after having been officially registered in 2010 as an important part of the group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme.