ALL eyes will be at PTA Hall in Dar es Salaam tonight where Tanzanian pugilist, Twaha Rubaha faces Sirimongkhon Lamthuan from Thailand for vacant World Boxing Council title. According to Shomari Kimbau, the director of Golden Boy Africa said here that preparation for the epic global level fight is complete and everything is in place. He said there will be six undercard bouts before the two boxers take over the ring for the main fight. He said the Thailand boxer has already arrived in the country since October 24th this year. Speaking to reporters, here Kiduku said he has trained intensively for the bout and was optimistic his mission would yield fruits. He said he was aware that his opponent has a better record in terms of the number of fights, and that forced him to enhance his training schedule. Lamthuan has played 101 fights, won 97 bouts while losing only four fights. "I know records favour him as out of 97 fights he has won, 60 of them were through knockouts, while he has lost only four of them,” said Kiduku. However, Kiduku said he will fight tooth and nail to ensure the WBC title remains in Tanzania. Before the Kiduku- Lamthuan fight, PTA Hall will witness Alphonce Mchumia Tumbo fighting Jongo Jongo before Maono Ally taking on Joseph Sinkala later on. Other fights will involve Said Juma who will lock horns with Ibrahim Tamba, before Said Wigo facing Francis Miyeyusho at the same venue. Also to showcase their boxing skills are Hamza Iddy Shaban who will fight Jamal Kunoga and Ruth Chisale who will test Sijali Said. In a humble way Twaha Kiduku remarked, "I humbly call upon all boxing fans in the city of Dar es Salaam to come and watch the big game. I have trained well and I will do my best not to let down my boxing fans." In his career Twaha Kiduku has won two titles; the Universal Boxing Organisation (UBO) Africa Super Welter title against Sherif Kasongo at Kinesi ground, Dar-es-Salaam by unanimous decision in 2018. In 2015 he won Tanzania Professional Boxing Commission Light title against Deo Njiku at Vijana Social Hall in Morogoro also by unanimous decision. Looking at the records of the boxers you will surely notice it will be an interesting and extraordinary fight as both fighters have the best record and history.