THE place of trial for Felicien Kabuga, who is accused of orchestrating the 1994 Genocide still hangs in balance, as the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals calls for additional information about circumstances at the Arusha and The Hague branches of the Mechanism. A single judge assigned the matter, Iain Bonomy ruled at Arusha on Tuesday that in order to decide where Kabuga’s trial should start, he needs additional information to ascertain if circumstances relating to Kabuga’s health and others have changed since when Judge William Sekule decided the trial to take place at the Arusha Branch. Kabuga (87) through his counsel Mr Emannuel Altit, is pressing for his trial to start at The Hague instead of Arusha, citing several reasons, including his advanced age, sickness and dangers associated with him travelling a long distance from France to Tanzania. Judge Bonomy instructed the Registrar of the Mechanism to file a written submission pursuant to Rule 31 (B) of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence in respect of the issues identified by tomorrow. Registrar Abubacarr Tambadou is supposed to furnish the Court with information about circumstances at the two branches of the Mechanism in regard to conditions in the detention facilities; medical facilities in light of Kabuga’s medical requirements and in the event of the occurrence of any risk mentioned in the medical report attached to the motion. Also the registrar is supposed to inform the Court about an assessment of the Mechanism’s ability to safely transport Kabuga to Arusha and hold him in detention there and advise what further investigation, if any, is considered necessary to provide an assessment. The judge also called for any additional information consiered relevant to the objective of avoiding circumstances compromising the health and life of Kabuga in the course of his transit and detention. Judge Bonomy said he considered the motion, given the fact that it presented new information relating to Kabuga’s health that was not before Judge Sekule or the French Courts. The Registrar on October 8th, this year supported temporary transfer of Kabuga to The Hague, so as to allow the Mechanism to review Kabuki’s medical file and conduct its own assessment on his fitness to travel to Arusha. The wealthy businessman Kabuga outwitted prosecutors of the Rwandan genocide tribunal for more than two-and-ahalf decades by using 28 aliases and powerful connections across two continents to evade capture. He was arrested on May 16th, this year in Asnières-sur-Seine, France. He has since been objecting to be transported to Arusha for trial. He is alleged to have been the main financier of the ethnic Hutu extremists who slaughtered 800,000 people in 1994. They were targeting members of the minority Tutsi community, as well as their political opponents. The United States had offered a $5m reward for information leading to Kabuga’s arrest.