CRDB Bank has commended its customers for enabling the bank to achieve strong business growth this year despite the challenges of Covid-19, which has affected many businesses in the country and the world at large. CRDB Bank CEO Abdulmajid Nsekela made the remarks during the launch of Customer Service Week in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Mr Nsekela said in the middle of the Covid-19 challenge, CRDB Bank had continued achieving positive results by being closer to customers and listening to their problems and providing shared solutions. At the same time CRDB Bank focuses on enabling sectors of the economy to continue performing well despite challenges caused by Covid-19, including the health sector. “As we celebrate Customer Service Week it is a great opportunity to thank our customers for the way you have developed to support us. The 2020 has continued being a successful year for CRDB Bank despite various challenges facing the country and the world at large. This is due to customer trust and the way we have grown up with them shoulder to shoulder, and provide services and products that meet their needs,” said Mr Nsekela. The executive director took the opportunity to say that during Customer Service Week, among other things, CRDB Bank officials and their staff will use the opportunity to receive feedback and advice from customers under the motto of “Customer Listening Bank.” He said CRDB Bank launched a digital feedback system in April this year to expand the scope of customer feedback that had grown to help them improve bank services significantly. “I am pleased to say that through this digital way of receiving customer feedback we have been able to obtain very important information that has led to further improve our service delivery methods for our customers. Since we launched this service in April we have been able to receive feedback from 669 customers in and outside the country.” For his part, CRDB Bank Customer Representative and Director of PMM Estate (2001), Dr Judith Mhina, thanked CRDB Bank for its services to Tanzanians in almost all parts of the country and commended the bank for the way it had moved closer to its customers. “I am very grateful to CRDB Bank for being closer to us its customers and I ask them to continue trusting us, especially on credit as we customers recognise and respect the money and make every effort to ensure we repay it on time so that others can borrow,” said Ms Mhina. The launch of Customer Service Week was attended by the Board of Directors of CRDB Bank led by Board Chairman, Dr Ally Laay, along with the Vice Chairman, Prof Neema Mori. The launch also took place at all CRDB Bank branches as part of the bank’s initiative to partner with various companies and institutions, to celebrate Customer Service Week which takes place every first week of Octobe